I don't think I've enjoyed hating an anime so much. I'll just get on with the review.
Story - 5
Pretty straightforward story. A dude gets a girlfriend, doesn't get why she doesn't spread 'em the second he wants her to and goes off to look for some fun from his friend who is doing her best to help him progress in his relationship. This leads to him craving the V like there's no tomorrow and several um... interesting situations arise from this.
Then comes the end.
Art & Sound - 8
the Art was watchable for me. I probably would've rated it a 10 because I don't know enoughabout art to judge except for the fact the little blood in this was black. The same goes for Sound. I don't really have much opinion either way. The  soundtrack wasn't horrible by any means.\n\n
Character - 10\n
I give this a 10 because the creators did a bang up job of creating the worst examples of human beings possible. I'll sum it up, pretty simply.\n
The Main : Innocent enough until he gets some action between the sheets. Then all his morals fly out the window. He becomes the biggest arsehole in history. You might agree, you might not but to me he is the worst possible case of a teenage guy. If you think your boyfriend is being a dick, watch this. Seriously.\n
The Shy one: Can't say I blame her, her personality doesn't hold up well to the emotional and psychological battering she receives throughout the course of this anime. In the end........ well demented doesn't quite cover it.\n
The Lively one: On the face of it, she'd be the faraway lover of the main who sacrifices everything for his happiness. Not here. She becomes the unbelievably selfish attention whore who gets her heart repeatedly stamped on but still doesn't get the message.\n\n
Enjoyment - 3\n
You can't enjoy this anime unless you're the sick and twisted individual who get their kicks from watching torture, for want of a better word. However the anime is definitely an interesting watch.\n\n
Overall - 6\n
The characters carry this anime for me. I'm not sure any set of characters will ever be hated more than these but they make for an entertaining watch, for all the wrong reasons. If you don't get too attached to what you're watching and want to see what the worst case scenario of a teenager with next to no resistance to sex is, voila! School Days is your thing