School days is, without a doubt, the worst anime I have had the displeasure of watching in my entire life. Now, if you like this series, I can totally understand why. Not everyone will have the same opinion on a series, and everyone has different tastes. However, this is my opinion, but, this anime is fucking trash. Flaming dumpster trash. Trash that left me disoriented, dissatisfied, and sick when I finished it. Keep in mind that this is my first review, so I might not be very good at it... with that said, let us begin.
I remember learning about School Days from an anime YouTuberwho said something about it being about a yandere love story with lots of gore. So, being a naive ten-year-old who had just finished Future Diary, I was like, ''Hell yeah! A yandere murder love story?! That sounds like the best thing ever! I'm totally going to watch it!'' \n\n
I did watch it. It was not the best thing ever. \n\n
School Days was just...confusing. Why was this Makoto suddenly acting like a jackass? Wasn't he afraid to even TALK to girls? Why is he suddenly okay to start cheating on everyone he meets and start fucking them from the getgo? Why is Katsura suddenly a psychopath? Yeah, I get it, being dumped is hard and shit, but she was just obsessive for no reason whatsoever. The story just made no sense.\n\n
Every character and I mean EVER CHARACTER has the intelligence of a goldfish. Actually, scratch that, goldfish are probably 50 times smarter than these sad excuses for human beings. Everyone in this series has the personality of a soggy biscuit, and everyone makes so many dumb decisions simultaneously that it makes me wonder if this is just an alternate universe where humans have no concept whatsoever of social skills or, you know, basic human morals. I wasn't even happy when everyone got slaughtered at the end because I wasn't really rooting for anyone, and I can honestly say that I hated absolutely everyone in this show. Makoto's a pervy asshole, Sekai's a weak bitch who isn't confident enough to be a decent human being, and Katsura's....just kinda there. Being dumb. The rest of the supporting cast are....okay? I guess? But they still act like idiots. Or maybe that's just how every highschooler on the planet acts. IDK.\n\n
Art was awful. I would have rather poured bleach into my eyes and gouged them out with spoons than have to watch this absolute failure again. \n\n
Music was trash and stayed stuck in my head for hours on end, repeating endlessly to keep reminding me how shit it was.\n\n
I just hate this anime. I really do. I completely regret watching this failure of an animated production. Consider this review a warning to never, ever watch this piece of trash.\n\n\n