*CONTAINS SPOILERS*
Oh great, some random person ranting about this anime and how awful it is.  Well, you're not wrong if you thought that, but there was something that intrigued me. 
For starters, I came across this anime by accident.  Just browsing through romance anime ( like a normal guy (not really) ).  And the brief introduction about this show caught my attention.
So as I watched the first episode, I knew that this isn't your regular romance anime.  It was rather different from the ones I've watched.  Just your classmate kissing you after school when she hooked you up with somegirl in another class.  As you do on a regular basis. \n\n
As I went on, the protagonist changes.  His personality, his desire, his conscience  and his reputation of himself.  In the beginning, he was just a shy, caring person looking for a miracle.  In the end, he lost everything, including his virginity. ( and his life I know)\n\n
The plot was fair, which could happen to some people in reality, which is completely fine, but what I dislike is the unnecessary H scenes involved.  (never thought a guy would dislike this?) \n\n
What I despised most was the characters, mainly the protagonist.  He was so insanely eccentric from reality and is completely nuts.  I mean seriously, reading porn on a date, has he no shame?  Also, getting your classmate to be your "practice sex partner" though.  COME ON, that's just sick.\n\n
In my opinion, for an anime, go for full slice of life, or full insane non realistic plot.  This anime was kind of a bit of both, which makes me hate this.  There is not proper decision made whether this show is either or.  \n\n
The ending of this show was awful.  I mean, sure he may have cheated on his girlfriend.  Sure he (didn't) knock up his classmate. slept with other women in this school, ignored his best friend, drove his ex mentally insane, and did nothing to improve himself to be a better person.  But seriously, killing people is not right, especially at his house as well.  Whose gonna clean up the mess as well?\n\n
All jokes aside though, that rooftop ending how the ex sliced up the knocked up girl's stomach, that's just uncalled for.  It's gruesome.  How can anyone enjoy this show in the first place.  Please, if you actually enjoyed this horror, tell me why.\n\n
Overall, this is an awful anime and will definitely not recommend this to anyone ( unless they like horror).