Now onto the very controversial School Days. School Days isn't your average slice of life romance where the character never chooses a girl. In fact, Makoto, the main protagonist, makes the choice of getting all of them.
Story: 4/10
School Days has the advantage of having no plot holes whatsover. Moreover, its story manages to piss off the viewer in less than 4 episodes making it a torture to watch.  After seeing it, you'll even find Guilty Crown good. Its pure awesomeness resides in the fact that once the story is settled you cannot feel anything but hatred towards this anime if you haven't dropped ityet that is. I love how the story has no incoherent developpement (except for the characters but I'll talk about it later) and even manages to please the viewer with its awesome ending. Personnally, I couldn't do anything but love the way School Days ended; it was a burst of freedom.\n\n
Art: 1/8\n
The art is just bad. I mean, even for a 2007 anime, the girls aren't even cute and the backgrounds look sooooo freaking rushed.\n\n
Sound: 1/8\n
Bad OST, bad OP, bad ED (did it even have one?). I mean, since the story wasn't great, I didn't expect much in the artistic domain and guess what ? I didn't get much !\n\n
Character: 1/10\n
Why can't I rate it 0! The characters in School Days are beyond illogical. It isn't the sort of "illogical" humans can be, it's beyond that. They act in random ways. The character developpement is present within the first few episodes and then it becomes a senseless massacre. The way the chararacters interacted with Makoto was incoherent. Girls went to bed too easily. The script was written in such a bad way, and it is easy to see that it crumbles 3 episodes into the anime. There is still a sub-plot which stays good until it ends but that's about it.\n\n
Enjoyment: 1/10\n
I've never harbored such feelings of hatred towards an anime. I have to praise School Days for making me feel something while watching it. I quite 'liked' how it pictured the vile human nature but it wasn't  realistic enough for me to buy it.\n\n
Overall: 1.6/10\n
A lot of anime come of as average and are easily forgetten but that isn't the case with School Days. This rollercoaster of nothingness manages to make you hate the main protagonist so much and pity all the girls. Kenji was right, it's a conspiracy.\n\n
Well, that's about it for School Days. Also, no offense but people who say School Days is good because it is a psychological anime are just fucking with you or are trying to play smart. There may be some people who genuinely appreciated this anime but I don't think they are numerous.\n\n
Have a nice time watching it, that is if you ever want to watch it.