When I first decided to watch this anime, it was simply because I thought the two main girls looked cute and the name 'School Days' sounded like a typical slice of life/high school anime. If you're thinking what I thought, think again. School Days is a very psychological anime that shows how relationships/romance isn't all hearts and flowers. When people talk about School Days, it's usually "wow that anime is so messed up" or "that anime is a work of art". For me, School Days was a little in between. 
Story: 
The series starts with a student named Makoto seeing a pretty girl on thetrain named Kotonoha. Instantly she catches his eye and he falls in love with her. There is a rumor going around that if you have a picture of your crush as your phone wallpaper for 2 weeks without anyone noticing, then you will end up together. Later on, a girl in Makoto's class, Sekai, discovers Makoto's love for Kotonoha and decides to help him out. She begins to fall in love with Makoto and wants him for herself, so she offers to let him "practice" various things on her so that he can be prepared when he's with Kotonoha. The story begins to go downhill when Makoto starts getting into relationships he cannot commit to and craves more and more lust. Throughout the series, you will get to see the things people are willing to do to be with the one they love and what happens when you push someone to their limits. Being someone who doesn't really like romance animes, I liked the story because it was different. The fact that they decided to make a romance anime with such an interesting twist to it made it really special.\n\n
Art: \n
There's not much I can say about the art, I would say it's a 6.5/10 because it's just "fair". Throughout the series, the art pretty much stays the same. They don't add in little chibi moments or breathtaking scenery. It's not amazing to the point where you will gaze at it and make gifs of the art, but it's also not bad enough to make you not want to watch it. There are some scenes in particular that I thought were quite beautiful, but overall the art was average. \n\n
Sound:\n
I think the sound is something that they did a great job on. The voice actors suited the characters well and the background tracks added suspense to the anime. The opening is upbeat and I had no problems with the ending tracks, they had multiple different ones and they all sounded great. The tracks were wonderful and gave me the chills. It replays certain scenes in my mind when I play them, meaning it was powerful enough to leave an impact on me. All in all, the sound is probably my favorite part of the anime.\n\n
Character:\n
There's quite a variety of characters in this anime, but let's just discuss the main characters for time's sake. For starters, we have the male protagonist, Makoto. He starts out as a well-mannered, innocent, typical high school student. As the story progresses, you will get to see he is not as typical and innocent as he seemed. Makoto is one of the worst, if not, then the worst, anime character I have ever seen. He hurts just about every girl in the anime and shows absolutely no remorse and/or shame. It angered me that he was treating the girls in such manner and didn't even feel a sliver of regret. Then it began to scare me when I realized he was able to do such things without feeling like he was doing something wrong. Then we have Kotonoha, Makoto's love interest. She is a shy, quiet, beautiful girl. She tends to keep a distance from guys so Makoto was quite surprised when he found out she was interested in him as well. Because she is shy and quiet, she is not used to the relationship that Makoto craves and begins pushing Makoto away. Although she tries her best to make the relationship work, she comes off as indecisive due to the fact that she simply isn't comfortable with Makoto's actions. This triggers Makoto to go to Sekai, his classmate, for advice. Sekai is an out-going and cheerful girl who likes to poke fun. The more Makoto went to Sekai for advice, the more Sekai started to fall for him. It wasn't long until 'advice' turned into practice and practice turned into an excuse. Sekai continues to push Makoto to improve his relationship with Kotonoha, but selfishly wants him for herself on the inside. The characters are well developed throughout the series, you get to see how much they change and how they react to certain situations when things don't go their way. \n\n
Enjoyment/Overall:\n
Overall, I rated the anime a 6/10. I can't say I enjoyed this anime a lot, but I can say I liked how different it was from the other romance animes. Because of it's 'originality', it has become quite infamous. Personally I feel like it's not as bad as everyone says it is, but it honestly isn't a masterpiece either. When I finished the anime, I didn't feel bored and I didn't feel amazed either. I simply felt satisfied, but at the same time it was a satisfaction that didn't feel quite right. I wouldn't recommend this anime to everyone, but if you're someone who likes plot twists, psychological animes, and/or unpredictable romance, then this should be right up your ally.