Makoto Ito, a first year high school student who happens to notice a cute and busty lady by the name of Kotonoha Katsura who takes the same train as he does to school, Makoto is desperate to get acquainted with this girl and he receives help from fellow classmate Sekai Saionji (who has a crush on Makoto) who manages to pair the two together. Makoto then sets about trying to 'wow' Kotonoha and push her to do things she is not ready for, which could spell trouble for their relationship. 
So what can i say about this anime that hasn't already been said?
Since this alternativetake on the harem genre arrived people have been criticizing this series left, right and center; to be fair they have their reasons for hating this series with a passion.     \n\n
There are a lot of problems with this series and i'll start off with the characters and their personalities and traits. The characters in this series are very... aggravating. Their personalities and choices make them look moronic, they have no sense of right or wrong and for the majority of this series make very unrealistic choices. \n\n
The only character you can feel any connection or sympathy for is Kotonoha as she is pushed to breaking point throughout the series as a result from being bullied by other girls and being neglected by her boyfriend! (Makoto)\n\n
The story is awful as it goes about showing how one guy likes a girl, gets lucky enough to start dating her and then he changes his mind and sleeps with various other women throughout the entirety of the show. (May i also remind you that Makoto is a 14 year old)\n\n
The art is nothing spectacular and that goes for the sound too. The opening song is way out of place for this series (though it is likable) and that goes for the ending song as well. \n\n
As awful as this anime is there are some notable things i can say about it. This is something different... by that I mean an anime that is a melodrama. I have never seen such a melodramatic anime before and i would almost mistake this for a melodramatic soap i would see on TV. This was a different take on the harem genre and at least they gave it a new look. (Even if it was a disfigured one at best)\n\n
I have always wondered if the writer of this anime intended to make people hate it in order to try and get some recognition or whether he was being serious about this anime and the characters retarded personalities. I hope one day i can find the answer. (If i can be bothered to Google search it)\n\n
Overall this anime was horrible and a horrible experience, there are a lot of things about this series that can turn the nicest and calmest of people into bloodthirsty psychos calling for Makoto's head. I would advise people not to watch this anime. (You can go give it a try if you wish)\n\n
THANKS FOR TAKING THE TIME TO READ THIS, LEAVE FEEDBACK IF YOU WANT, IT WOULD BE MUCH APPRECIATED!!\n