Welcome to School Days. School Days is an anime where Douche-kun goes around screwing with girls any chance he gets.
(Note: This is my first review, so please don't judge on what I think about this cancer anime.) 
Story: 1 
Honestly, what the hell was this story? Douche-kun gets Girl A to help him get together with Girl B. Nothing could've gone wrong with just that right? You're wrong. They get together and for some retarded reason, Douche-kun decides: "Man, I'm not getting enough HOTNESS. Fuck Girl B, I'm going with Girl A behind her back." which is the most retarded thing I've ever heard. Thenqueue 9 more episodes of Douche-kun going back and forth between any girl that throws her panties at him, and you got yourself a "successful" anime.\n\n
Art: 2\n
The art just looks horrible. Of course I can't say that since this an anime from 2007, but damn it looks hella ugly. Just doesn't meet my standards at all. The only thing I found good about the art is at the end where a certain thing happens. Also Boat Ending.\n\n
Sound: 2\n
The sounds were bad AND unmemorable. I can't remember anything I heard from the anime, besides Douche-kun's bitch ass voice when porking someone. Again as before, the only sound that was memorable was the ending of the anime. Also Boat Ending.\n\n
Character: 1 \n
This is the most CANCER part of the entire anime.\n\n
Douche-kun: Douche-kun is your normal boy going to a normal school who has a crush on a girl. But what we didn't know, is that he was a douche (Surprise right?). Later on we found out he's even more of a douche due to certain things happening with the heroines of the anime. Probably the worst anime character I've ever seen in my life. Like just watch the anime, and you don't even need me to explain what kinda douchebag Douche-kun is.\n\n
Girl A: Girl A is your typical "Hey, I see you like this girl. Let me help you, even tho I actually like you but wanna be a good friend by helping you, even though it clearly blocks my emotions toward you (which she shouldn't even have emotions towards Douche-kun)" type character. Although she is the best character in the entire anime just because of the ending. You may have noticed I've mentioned the ending A LOT in this review, and that's because the ending is so perfect, that it made me want to hate the anime EVEN MORE.\n\n
Girl B: Girl B is your typical "quiet girl but actually likes you but can also go crazy" character. She's what starts the anime's plot by using the "I like this girl but I want her to like me back" tactic. Girl B is the second best character in the entire anime, because you guessed it: The Ending. The ending in the anime with her in it was just great. She's also the main part of the "Boat Ending" (Note: I'll say it now, but this anime doesn't have multiple endings. By boat ending, I mean something that involves a boat in the ending.) \n\n
Everyone Else: Taisuke is a "comedy relief" character, which just fails at his job in the anime, and makes it EVEN WORSE when you play the School Days Visual Novel. (Since you: Spoiler Alert! Find out he's actually a rapist who doesn't even know the concept of the word "rape" which is just retarded). \n
All the other females besides Girl A and Girl B are just tools to progress the plot in stupid ways. Honestly how they act near the end of the anime is kinda like they're being sluts which cost a fee for sex.\n\n
Enjoyment: 2\n
The only thing I enjoyed about this anime is the ending, don't need to say more. Period.\n\n
Overall: 1 \n
This anime is the WORST anime I've ever watched. The plot is stupid, the characters are just retarded (besides Girl A), the art is ugly (again, it just doesn't fit my standards 2007 or not), the music/sound was unmemorable and just sounded bad (besides the ending), and overall: It's just a bad anime. It doesn't even deserve to be classified as an anime, it should be classified as "bad fan fiction for sluts and yandere's 101". People who like this anime, I'm sorry but really? This anime is just horrible. Case Closed.