This anime could be considered one of the more controversial anime out there because its either said to be a great psychological anime, or an utter waste of your time. And in my opinion, it was an utter waste of time.
Plot:
Weeeelll, plotwise, the anime doesnt set any kind of new boundaries, but thats not to be expected in an anime about a dude who wants to get girls into bed.
It's revolves around relationsships and a crapton of betrayal. There is a lot of melodrama and the only saving grace for this animes story is its twist ending. And honestly, it was pretty damn satisfying. Imean, it was the only thing that actually stood out in this anime. All in all, the story is generic, but that wouldnt be that much of a problem if there werent the ....\n\n
Characters:\n
THIS is the point that made me mad. The MC, Makoto, is a douchebag. I think his brain slipped down into his dick when he was in kindergarden ... but uhh, nevertheless, he is irresponsible for his actions. He is in a relationship and cheats with multiple girls at same the time. And he does so many stupid decisions, that not many anime dicks could do, but I think his end was quite fitting ^^\n
Then theres Sekai, without getting to much into her (*badpunintended*) shes a person who doesnt do anything without ulterior motives. She is the person who triggered the whole thing around Makoto. Makoto's girlfriend, Kotonoha is the victim of the Makotos actions. Shes a pretty airheaded, shy and most importantly ( at least for Makoto i guess ) busty Character. You cann see some of the effects on her around the end ( especially in the ending ).Theres the best friend of Makoto, and the girls he cheats with but they're basically just there to be there. Theres next to nothing about them that stands out. I short, they are quite irrelevant in this anime. In terms of character development, ... well ..., at least some of them changed during th 12 eps, but that stuff toned down my personal enjoyment of the anime, because I got pretty fucking angry at the way some of the characters developed. A quick summary of all this: Characters ruined the anime for me, because 2 of the most important characters are people that you'd call: Slut, whore, dickbag, asshole ( ... ) in real life.\n\n
Presentation:\n
Its fine, i mean, the art is pretty run of the mill, while the animation is farely okay too. The music was pretty forgetable. Righ now, I dont even remember on single OST from the anime. School Days' Presentation is okay.\n\n
Enjoyment:\n
Oh ... My .. God... if you havent realized yet, in terms of enjoyment this think is absolutely horrible. Even if it were a psychological expermiment, the characters just piss you off and the way the develop doesnt make you like them as well. I watched this anime due to its infamous reputation in the anime community and of course .... THE ENDING. This anime basically builds up to the ending and BAM, and done. I think that the ending is pretty well done. But if the best thing about your anime is THAT and HOW it ends, that isnt a good thing. The ending was pretty good, the beginning was okay and the middle is pisspoor in my opinion\n\n
Overall:\n
Its a piece of garbage with some gold under it. That is what School Days is to me. An Anime that stinks of MEH with a shocking but damn satisfying conclusion. Would I recommend it ? HELL NO! If you want to see School Days for that psychological aspect, go ahead. But that aspect doesnt make it fun to watch. So for any anime watcher who like charismatic, cool, likeable characters you can sympathize with ... STAY THE HELL AWAY ^^.