School days is an anime that is infamous for its different take on the harem genre by taking a dark path. But even though it brings these new ideas to the table of the harem genre, it does a lot wrong, a whole smegging lot :P. 
Art and Sound: 5/10
There isn't very much special about the art and sound of this anime. The art and animation is nothing special, it isn't good but it isn't bad either. The intro isn't special, but it does match the (sort of) eerie tone to the series. The soundtrack isn't particularly impressive either, only the soundtrack used in thelast episode left any effect on me.\n\n
Characters: 1/10\n
The thing that absolutely pisses me off about school days is the characters, this series possibly has the worst characters of any anime that i have watched, they are all barely fleshed out that they barely felt human, the actions that they take is the most illogical bullshit i have ever seen in my life. I don't know any person with at least half a brain that would do any of the things that these characters seem to think as a logical choice. and then. There is. Makoto.... \n
He is the biggest fucking shit cunt asshole motherfucking piece of shit scum, the world has ever fucking seen, i have never gotten as pissed off at any character until i saw Makoto, and boy, was i fucking pissed. I nearly punched a hole in my wall because of how much of a cunt he is. He shows no respect for everyone and he is just determined to backstab people. He also reminds me of some dipshit that goes to my old school :P.\n\n
Story: 1/10\n
The story is so far fetched that and stupid, i don't know who in their right mind thought that this story would make a good anime adaption. I find the main basis of the story bs, because the main basis is everyone falling for the shitcunt A.K.A Makoto. But.. What is special about him, he looks like the biggest dumb cunt and he has no likable qualities except for having empathy at the start of the series, but for some reason this makes everyone fall head over heels for him. \n\n
I would give my enjoyment of Schools Days a 1/10. But.. That is not including the last episode :D\n\n
The last episode for me was one of the greatest finales i have ever seen. Not because it rounded up the show well, leaving you satisfied. It was because i have never felt so happy in my life, the last episode was meant to leave you shocked, but for me i was crying tears of joy. I cant say what it was exactly because that would be a spoiler, but if you have seen the show, you know exactly what i am talking about. So i give the final episode, 11/10\n\n
So overall, Schools Days tries to aim for something new in the harem genre, but instead falls flat with poor story writing and shitty characters. I would only recommend this show if you a masochist or if you like getting really angry (idk why). \n\n
This was my first review (if you don't count my troll sao review). So if it was pretty shitty or not up to your standards then instead of going on my profile and chucking a tantrum. Give me some constructive criticism