Well... I am pretty sure by now, everyone who knows at least something about anime has heard of the infamous school days... This show doesn't deserve to be giving an automatic 1/10... This is a great example of a flawed but not entirely terrible show... with the important lesson of "never fuck every girl in school and think you can get away with it". It really is sad and has a deeper meaning with things such as responsibility, relationships, love, drama, and a bunch of other emotions. It is hard to explain what this anime really is which for the first time watching it overtwo years ago, thinking it was a sick stupid show with a fucked up ending and rewatching it now... (I don't know why I did) but understanding that there is more to it. So lets get down to business. \n
(spoilers)\n
(This anime has probably been spoiled so let me try to explain and it for you)\n\n
Story: 4/10\n
A really generic plot of boy who goes to school discovering a new girl on the train.. reading a book. He has other friends and needs some help in "dating". MC or Makouto Itou um I think.. has one of those generic guy pervert friends always trying to get a girl. Makouto finally gets some help from the girl sitting next to him named Sekai she realizes that Makouto wants something and tries to deliver... She gives him "SPECIAL TRAINING" to supposedly get him used to dating and junk... Sekai wants to help support MC but eventually turns to like him and give him some real "SPECIAL TRAINING".. (sex) and kind of push off train girl Katsura...It really is a blunder mess but eventually MC gets the train girl Katsura... and later gets greedy since hes pretty much being spoiled by Sekai always giving him what he wants behind Katsuras back.... Other girls at school are introduced trying to have a weird one episode relationship with MC, having the girls revealing feelings, and reuniting with child hood friends or something and then having sex... He really doesn't understand others feelings and just goes behind the girls backs and sexes them.. He eventually has a phone book filled with like 30 bitches on speed dial... Why would anyone like this guy is my reaction but who cares bout that.... The show continues and reaches climax when Sekai supposedly becomes pregnant and Katsura becomes so in denial that MC has been fucking all the girls in school and hasn't even talked to her since episode 3, she really thinks they are still dating and hasn't done anything really wrong... In the end, MC finally realizes he's kind of a asshole when no girls are talking to him at school anymore or answering his calls, but runs into Katsura who has been sitting under a Christmas tree talking to her cellphone pretending MC is actually talking to her when i'm pretty sure he blocked her number or something. Sees her traumatized in denial face and she just expresses her unconditional in denial love for him even after everyone basically knows hes the biggest douchebag ever... and goes with it and says he still has "feelings for her" even though he hasn't talked to her in ages or thought about her at all. She accepts him and they become bf and gf...  BUT WAIT Sekai and MC are already bf and gf... Sekai is even pregnant... oh wait MC doesn''t care oh.. okay.. Eventually Sekai finds out and flips shit, going to his house makes some tea and stabs poor MC in the chest like 6 times... Katsura is finally happy to have MC all to her self and is recovering telling Sekai to get aborted but OH NOO... MC is kill.... Katsura has no one... umm... So then Katsura tells Sekai to meet her on the roof... and Sekai actually goes... for some reason... and confronts her love and asks if the baby was real or if it was just attention schemes telling Sekai shes basically a slut that made MC want all the bitches... and now hes dead oh yhea I also have his head in a bag... So basically Katsura goes can I see your baby grabs a huge as knife and slices Sekai's stomach open seeing if there was really a fetus or something developing... she says oh well know one there and credits roll.. It really is hard to explain I just wanted to rant about it like an idiot but yhea thats the generic unfulfilling garbage story with a YANDERE TWIST. It wasn't a bad story but every episode was repetitive and tedious to get through... every scene with MC made me want to cringe on how awkward he was and there was no real pay out at all, It doesn't feel good to watch it.\n\n
Art: 7/10\n
Well the animation wasn't terrible it was probably the only okay thing about the show. MC was made looking awkward and he portrays it throughout the show. Other girl characters are decently copy pasted to look different and unique, but still are generic. The show reuses the same stills of the outdoor landscapes as well always showing the apartment building with that "Nobil" gas station that gets old quick... Everything was well animated but it wasn't amazing just average good animation.\n\n
Sound: 7/10\n
It wasn't amazing as well just average. Voice actors were well done. Stabing sounds sounded okay. Music was kind of good. I think the opening is kind of annoying but I like it kind of. Every episode has a different ending theme except for the last one I think, so that was cool. Everything was clear, just basic sounds and nothing really amazing, opening doors, walking, cutting, talking, really just the basics...\n\n
Characters: 6/10 \n
You have some good characters like maybe two and a lot of bad characters plus fillers. It just goes all over the place. None of the characters are really memorable well fleshed out or likable. Theres the serious one, loli, pervert, childhood friend, bitches, bullies, etc. None of them are enjoyable. I am pretty sure its safe to say that Makoutou Itou or MC is one of the worst MC's in all anime... He has NOTHING unique about himself, no likable qualities, and is just a greedy guy who is really selfish. Then gets killed. Sekai is whatever... literally tries to support MC and Katsura and fucks the whole relationship up giving him opportunities to get with more girls and just being the cause of the problem. Katsura didn't really do anything wrong. She was pretty innocent always thought about her bf telling her sister about him, trying to learn to cook, sew, etc. and then gets left alone, bullied by other girls at school, cheated on, and becomes an in denial girl with a crazy yandere look in her eyes. She then takes stuff to extreme measures and is a little at fault for killing Sekai... or something its wierd...\n
Enjoyment: 3/10 \n
There is literally 0 to know enjoyment in this entire show. Some scenes may be like oh they were child hood friends and oh they all love each other and oh the drama... but it is really just completely terrible to go through there is no motivation I have to watch this anime other then to get through it. It has nothing you can be happy about, be interested about, cry about, its just like oh they had sex what... or oh he cheated on her again.. and then oh Crazy Ending... and credits.... Its hard to get through when the viewer doesn't get rewarded for the time spent watching the mess of a show... but it is just not fun at all.\n\n
Overall: 4/10\n
It isn't the worst anime you will ever watch but it will be the one you remember as wow this was so ridiculous and unfulfilling... Every episode is basically the same... It is hard to judge this anime but it just isn't good. It had a good lesson I guess to stay faithful and be responsible and all but it was just a unsatisfying way to put everything together.. I don't know why I wrote a review on this.. but I guess I needed to express that (No this anime is not a 1/10 a 1/10 is a ridiculous score making an anime basically unviewable)... which this isn't, and I am always seeing these 1/10's So ignore them. If you really want to watch this anime I encouarge that you do but with warning that you will not get any real satisfaction after watching it. You probably have already seen it so whats the point... but just do if you haven't so you understand how basically everyone who has seen it feels...