For my first review, I never thought it would be School Days but I just couldn't hold back so I will keep it to the point.
This isn't one of them anime's which goes along the lines of 'your typical romance school life'. No, this is far from it. The anime is filled with tragedy of how cheating can affect someone’s mind and the type of drama on which can happen due to peoples actions. This can be related in many forms of very day life but as you progress into the show, I believe that everyone can agree on how 'over the top' itbecomes.\n\n
Without as many spoilers as possible, the story starts off revolving around the main characters, Makoto, Kotonoha and Sekai. Starting out to be your typical anime love triangle, Makoto and Kotonoha starts dating with the help of Sekai, when suddenly she begins having feelings towards Makoto. Now this is where everything begins going downhill when Makoto true colours are beginning to show..\n\n
I couldn't help but find how disgusting Makoto is as a  character, I won't say too much as I don't want to spoil anything. He starts the show off as what you will think, is such a great guy but suddenly out of the blue.. Turns into the complete opposite. Understanding of his rights and wrongs and also unknowing of what his actions cause to the other characters; he is suddenly controlled by his desire for sex doing what he wants as he pleases.\n\n
I just couldn't stop myself but I was spending most of my time shouting 'WHAT ARE YOU DOING!?'\n\n
Now we have Kotonoha, very lady-like and insecure with little self of esteem. Loving Makoto with all her heart, but when he leaves her behind she is then left thinking that its only herself to blame. I couldn't help but feel sorry for her but thinking at the same time of how much Makoto never deserved her. Sekai on the other hand is a very to the point type of person, while she is helping Makoto build his relationship with Kotonoha things start going for the worse. Deeply in love with him, when he comes crawling back to her she is then believing that he loves her back. Two interesting characters, both full of drama that’s for sure.\n\n
Makoto being this, well far from realistic type of a character stuck inside this love triangle, heavily full of events such cheating, even rape but not all is bad for School Days. It left a surprisingly satisfied ending on which you can see coming episodes before hand, but its twisted and dramatic. Very over the top I should say but overall I still found it to be a shallow watch and very frustrating for that matter.\n\n
Please beware of the different endings between the Manga and the Anime.\n\n
Do I recommend this anime?\n\n
Well, its a very dark type of anime which isn't filled with happiness but provides a form of message towards the viewer on the tragedy and disasters in life. I do not recommend being someone like Makoto however. But it is greatly done, has a pretty good production for the year it came out in and the music is excellent and fits in beautiful with very decent opening and closing themes. But if you are into dark type romances with everything this anime provides, then this would be perfect for you!\n\n
I give this an overall score of: 5/10\n\n
Now if I was given money for very time I heard someone say sorry within this anime, I would be very rich..\n