(spoilers, but that should be obvious)
So what is School Days? School Days is, supposedly, a ''dark'' and ''psychological'' anime that tries to give you a shock factor at the end but fails to do so because of the many, many faults throughout the series.
Story: The story is about a guy named Makoto and his love triangle with Kotonoha and Sekai. I say love triangle, but the story ravels out into nothing more than Makoto having sex with every character that has female genitalia, so it's more of a love octagon. The original premise had me interested for about an episode or two because it couldhave become somewhat deep and fleshed out, but it amounts to nothing more than a hentai but just without the sex being on screen.\n\n
All of this to lead up to the conclusion of the story, which can be seen a mile away unless you have the IQ of a half-eaten bar of chocolate. This leaves the viewer with a miniscule sense of satisfaction, however it cannot redeem the series by having a ''wow'' factor that doesn't leave me wowing but sighing in relief that School Days finally came to an end due to the amount of dissatisfaction in the lack of a story worth noting. (2/10)\n\n
Characters: So as previously stated, School Days focuses around Makoto, Sekai and Kotonoha. Makoto starts off as a teenage boy who cannot talk to girls properly, has the personality of a 2x4 piece of wood that has been left out in the rain for far too long and every single girl seems to gravitate towards his penis for some reason that can only be known by the gods of anime. At the end of the series he is the exact same way, literally no character development at all throughout the series and has no remorse for his actions at all. \n\n
Sekai ''helps'' Makoto by setting him up with Kotonoha, and then helps him throughout the series by....''practicing''...kissing at the beginning which then becomes ''practicing'' sex. She then goes into a fit of jealousy because Makoto is with Kotonoha which leads up to the murder. I honestly have no idea how the creators wanted to me to feel about Sekai, whether I should have despised her for sleeping with Makoto fully knowing that he was in a relationship or feel sorry for her because she isn't with him but in love with him. In the end I just hated her for being incredibly stupid throughout all of the series.\n\n
Kotonoha suffers from what I call ''shy girl, big boobs'' syndrome. Kotonoha is also incredibly stupid and I feel absolutely no sympathy for her at all because she is with Makoto full well knowing that he is out filling up every one of her friends with his love seed. I'd say that she is obsessively in love with Makoto, but she ends up making really bad choices through sheer stupidity.\n\n
There are also a number of side characters that are completely forgettable (I actually can't remember their names) that aid the story and character development of the trio in no way at all and should never have been included in the series to be sex fodder for Makoto. (1/10)\n\n
Sound: The soundtrack was completely forgettable, I apologize for this section being EXTREMELY short but that's it, it's forgettable. (1/10)\n\n
Art/animation: The art was simply the generic high school anime look and the animation wasn't anything to sneeze at either. There was fan service in School Days, but the only character worth giving fan service too was Kotonoha and she barely provided any anyway, and even when she did the sheer lack of intelligence of her makes it even more mind numbing. I don't dislike fan service if it is done right, but this is also one of the many things that School Days does wrong. (2/10)\n\n
Overall: Do not watch. Nothing about this anime makes it worth watching. If you're that interested in seeing the ending then just watch it on Youtube because it is not worth wasting 4 hours of your life of awful story and terrible characters for. 1/10  Disgusting and should burn in a fire.