Sword Art Online. I don't think it's an exaggeration to rank this as one of the most hyped anime series of 2012. That being said, one only has to take a cursory glance at any SAO related forums, discussions et cetera to see for oneself - that SAO is undoubtedly a series dogged by controversy.
Fans of SAO are so devoted to it that they will leap into every discussion to defend any perceived slight at their beloved anime. On the other hand, people who detest it tend to make an almighty fuss about everything that has to do with it.
To be frank, I was actuallypretty fired up by the hype surrounding SAO and was anticipating an anime that was brilliantly presented, on par with the likes of Steins;Gate and Fate/Zero.\n\n
The first episode indeed lived up to all my expectations. We have a bunch of players trapped in a massive virtual world and a raving mad scientist ruling over said world. Throw in an additional quirk, dying in-game means a horribly real death in the real world. I could wax lyrical about the limitless opportunities this premise offered up! The second episode followed this up with a well delivered boss fight and excellent story development. Hope burned bright in the souls of many SAO fans.\n\n
However, all good things come to an end, and for SAO, it was disappointingly a whole 22 episodes earlier than expected.\n\n
Cue the main protagonist, Kirito suddenly transforming from a well thought out character into a cliched knight in shining armour. A Gary Stu to boot, perfect in every respect.\n\n
The few episodes go something like this.\n
A girl has a worry. Kirito pokes his nose in it. He miraculously manages to come up with a perfectly viable plan to solve the girl's problems and manages to execute it flawlessly every single time. The girl then suddenly develops romantic feelings towards her knight in shining armour a.k.a the one and only Kirito-kun. He's practically a stereotypical Gary Stu!\n\n
If it were a single episode interspersed in between the main story arcs I don't think anyone would have complained. But no! The studio in all its great wisdom decided to string 'em together in one almost unbearably long series of episodes.\n\n
The main grouse I have with this portion of the anime is that is does not have any bearing on the overall plot of the anime. See those cute girls that have befriended Kirito? They get one episode together in the limelight with him, and then fade away into the darkness. Helping someone get an item? Tell me how that's going to impact on the future plotline of the anime.\n\n
Whew. Now that I've got that out of my system, let's move on to rating the anime. \n\n
I gave the story a 5. Essentially, SAO is a jumbled up mix of episodes that each do the main concept of the anime no favours at all. First we have the filler episodes. Then we have huge leaps in time. Heck, the first seven episodes spanned one and a half years, yet the rest of it up to the end of the SAO arc only took a few months. Ever heard of pacing, people? That pissed me off no end. I was expecting them to pace the SAO arc over the whole 25 episodes.\n\n
The one major problem in this area is that the people in charge either took excessive artistic licence or were high on something, because SAO is as filled with holes as a block of Swiss cheese in terms of plotholes. Basically we have logic defying actions, even within the rules of the SAO world. On one occasion, the anime even blatantly contradicts itself, feeding us the ridiculous idea that pure willpower and love can counter the rules of said world. Come on, give us a break. That's just a blatant deus ex machina!\n\n
Then we have ALO, or Alfheim Online.\n\n
 I won't spoil any people yet to watch SAO any further. Suffice to say that SAO's story and execution as a whole are mediocre, extending to the ALO arc. Its only saving grace is that the plot twists are quite well executed and unexpected when they are not logic defying.\n\n
Art-wise I have no particular complaints to make. The art as a whole is solid stuff, especially in a few scenes that are a feast for the eyes. A 7 overall.\n\n
Moving on to the sound. \n
The first OP, LiSA's crossing field was decent. Not bad, but not too good either, a hallmark of her songs. First ED, forgettable, generic and very plain indeed. I feel that the second OP was a shade better than crossing field. And finally, the pièce de résistance, the 2nd ED, Overfly. In my opinion it was actually a great song. Haruna Luna's not half bad. The soundtracks were done by Kajiura Yuki. Need I say more? 8 out of 10.\n\n
Characters! Now we're getting serious. I mean DEAD serious.\n
A breakdown :\n\n
Kirito - Every part of him shouts Gary Stu! He is the modern day Sherlock Holmes with wonderful deduction ability. He is a chick magnet without even trying to. He always goes out of his way to help people. He even gets a wife after non-existent courtship! He's even got his own unique Dual Wield sword skill because he's just that badass! "Make me a sammich and a rabbit stew, Asuna!" "Okay!"\n\n
Asuna - The female protagonist. When we first see her, she appears as a strong character, with the personality and traits to match as well. Granted, she does play some important roles in the earlier stages of the SAO arc. After that, she degenerates into Kirito's sidekick. What, you're among the top in your guild hierarchy and a front liner to boot, yet Kirito has to fight for your freedom from your guild? For some honeymoon so that you can spend your lovey-doey couple time together? She gets even worse in the ALO arc. Basically, Asuna is there to help Kirito on the road to awesomeness. Whenever she's in a spot of trouble, cue Kirito stepping in and coolly getting rid of her problems, be it enemies, monsters or otherwise. No point in her existing otherwise, is there?\n\n
These two are the only two that SAO really focuses on. The supporting cast are merely there to cheer them on. They play no major role and do not impact the storyline. Some even appear in only one episode!\n\n
Characters - A really bad one. 3 from 10. It would have been lower if Yui didn't at least appear to compliment the Kirito-Asuna pairing. \n\n
Enjoyment - I'm going to give it a deserving 7. I will concede that although the story and characters are immensely lacking, I quite enjoyed the series. Between facepalming at those god awful plotholes to being absorbed in the beautiful world of SAO, it's actually quite an enjoyable experience.\n\n
In conclusion, SAO is probably an anime series that polarises opinion like never before. I'm going to take a neutral stand here and say that I neither detest nor love it. Else there's probably gonna be another SAO flame war.\n\n
The source material by the author is excellent, but suffers very badly when being adapted by those "What the fuck are they smoking, they're so high" people from A-1 Pictures. \n\n
I'm giving it a 6. Seeing as the light novel is selling as fast as Kirito attracts chicks, I'll go out on a limb here and say I'm very hopeful of a further season 2.\n\n
Now, if only they would kick A-1 out and replace them with a better studio... \n