Sword Art Online – it’s the anime where you either hate it or love it. On paper, it seems like a very good idea: ten thousand people are trapped in a virtual world with no way out other than completing all one hundred floors of the world which get increasingly difficult. Gamers everywhere would love this concept and as a gamer, I won’t lie when I say that Sword Art Online intrigued me. The first episode was very promising – beautiful art with some of the most gorgeous scenery, a nice tutorial for not only a newcomer to the game, but the audience as welland a main character that seemed very likable. The future looked bright for the series and I anticipated more.\n\n
And, in one fell swoop, the delight of the first episode vanished as it went on. And on.\n\n
That’s not to say that the entire series should be exactly like the first episode, it shouldn’t. The problem is that everything that made the first episode so great is absent from the rest of the series. The breathtaking environments and even the likability of the main character seem to crash and burn as soon as the second episode hits. People hating on the beta-testers, labelling them as “beaters” when they’re clearly the people you would want helping you the most. It’s very strange that as it goes on, you’re introduced to characters that you’ll be seeing more of but only if they haven’t appeared for six episodes. Those characters in particular are the most interesting ones.\n\n
The story follows Kirito, one of those aforementioned beta-testers that already knows the ropes and happenings of Sword Art Online. He starts off as a guide to another character in the very first episode, being very energetic and helpful towards him. The problem is, due to his real life shut-in tendencies, Kirito likes to be by himself, therefore being a solo player. When it’s discovered that no one can log out of the game, it’s revealed that the ten thousand people in the game can’t escape and their minds are trapped in the game. If they die in the game, they’re dead in real life. If someone takes off the headgear needed to play the game, it’ll fry their brain and kill the player. It is said that whoever can complete all one hundred floors of the game can escape and free everyone. With that, Kirito goes on his merry journey to save everyone, though his initial intent is to save himself.\n\n
The premise is good, but the execution is absolutely poor beyond belief. As the series goes on, the overall life-or-death theme goes out the window for the main character, since he becomes far stronger than anyone else in the game. As the series goes on, there are a lot of time-gaps. It can be several months before something important to the plot actually happens and there isn’t much of a care regarding who has died besides those who the main character knows. Early on in the series, Kirito meets a small guild who doesn’t know his true level or his strength. Within the guild, there’s a girl who believes she’s not very strong and takes a liking to Kirito after they have a talk. Within the same episode, she dies. This gives the illusion that you’re supposed to care about that character, wherein she’s given no time to develop and the only connection she has to us is a few lines she spoke to the main character which is the loosest form of character development. There is little to no character development throughout the whole story.\n\n
The character that seemed interesting before the plot downgraded her was Asuna, the love-interest. She was introduced in the same episode the series began to show its “weak-points” if you will. She started off as a very strong female character, someone who many people could aspire too. She becomes basically second-in-command to the biggest guild in the entire game and is shown as very dominate, willing and caring. As the series goes on, the caring aspect goes way out of proportion as it becomes the only thing she can do: care. She becomes Kirito’s emotional anchor; his soulmate – no longer a badass, independent, strong woman character. The fact that there were other characters that were her eventually downgraded version before the plot made her less interesting than a plank of burnt wood and she was tossed into that crowd is severely disappointing for her character and the audience alike.\n\n
The art style and the music seem to be the only things that the series has going for it. The designs of the characters, clothing, weaponry, monsters, and locations – they all look good and appealing to the eye, with fight scenes looking magnificent. The music accompanying those scenes and the series as a whole isn’t bad in itself. It’s very grand and epic, music fitting for an actual video game. While these are the only good aspects of the series, it’s bad when you need something else to be more appealing than the story or characters. The fight scenes look great, yes, but it’s not gratifying enough to acknowledge that your lacklustre characters and plot are enough to keep an audience: you need flashing fighting and ecchi scenarios to be more intriguing than anything else.\n\n
Sword Art Online really shows just how emotionally draining it can be during the final episodes. During the fight against the Big Bad, the creator of the game, Kirito becomes impaled with his sword and all hope is seemingly lost. At this moment, it seems that we would be getting a bittersweet ending and that the series would’ve ended on something we wouldn’t call a “high note” but to show you can’t fight your battles alone- Or, you could just break the game and not die. This is when the series knows it’s being ridiculous, by having the main character break the rules of a perfectly designed game. Does it make any sense? No. Is the main character awesome for accidently finding an exploit that should exist in the first place? No. This was the moment a fanfiction writer came into the office, squealed that the main character was about to die and wrote in nonsense. It doesn’t make for a good save and it’s randomness out of nowhere is insanely bad.\n\n
Oh, and: it’s revealed that the Big Bad had no motive at all after losing. Fuck. You.\n\n
After all that, everyone is freed from Sword Art Online and the two lovebirds can live happily ever- there are still eleven episodes left!? Yes, that’s correct: there is a second season in which Kirito goes into another game that was launched during the time Sword Art Online in order to save Asuna because her mind was transferred into the other game after Kirito saves everyone due to the fact that the creator will marry her while she’s in her comatose state as he wants her family’s riches and- did this just become a lot more ridiculous? It’s odd when the audience thinks that this new plot is strange and may as well not exist.\n\n
The second season doesn’t introduce any other worthwhile characters besides Kirito’s cousin, who is in love with him because the harem set-up from the first season won’t die out. It’s a shame that the second season tries to bring back an aspect that wasn’t interesting or even necessary in the first place. Unlike Asuna or his cousin, there was no real development for the other female characters to fall in love with him. Even so, there wasn’t really any development for Asuna or his cousin to fall in love with him either. The romantic aspect of this anime is without a doubt underdeveloped and probably shouldn’t have been one of the themes.  All of this is here to give us a reason to care for badly written, clichéd and unable-to-relate-to characters that could’ve been replaced with rubber gloves filled with acid.\n
Asuna’s a damsel-in-distress? They just won’t let her be the only good main character, will they?\n\n
The second season, shockingly, is a lot better than the first season. The villain actually has a clear motive right from the beginning unlike the previous villain, the relationship between Kirito and his cousin is more elaborate and understandable in contrast to Kirito and anyone else in whole series and the climax isn’t botched up with breaking the rules for no reason. Unlike the climax happening in the game, like in the first season, it happens in real life and it’s very dramatic, something that this series didn’t pull off that well until the final episode.  With that in mind, it can be ridiculous as well and strangely dark. The villain would qualify as a rapist, groping and liking Asuna’s breasts. There are slug monsters which, if given more screen time, would’ve given us some tentacle hentai that would be most unwanted and the fact that his cousin doesn’t know who Kirito is in the game despite the voice and very similar appearance until he mentions Asuna’s name.\n\n
This could’ve been a lot better, it really could’ve but it’s just so bad that it’s a wonder why people thought this was good in the first place. A friend of mine said it was good; he was shocked when I said I thought it was bad. For what it’s worth, Sword Art Online will only appeal to those who want action and attractive women that will be used in countless H-Manga. Sword Art Online is bad, though it doesn’t go into the territory of being absolutely terrible. It’s start was great – why did it have to get worse as it went on. Overall, Sword Art Online is a bad anime with bad characters and terrible writing. Avoid it for your own benefit.