When I first started watching it, the show was about people stuck in a game world, with the only way being out is to defeat the final boss. Now this can lead to many interesting things, like how the players react to this, to each other, and so on. And the show does in fact reveal some of these things to us. We can see people right off the bat becoming scared and sad that if they die in the game, they die in real life.
So there is nothing wrong with the setting of the story. Except for one little thing, and that is ittries to be too much like the real world. The show has MANY filler scenes where characters yell out the same generic comment about how delicious digital food is. The filler takes up a good two-five minutes per episode. It is in EVERY episode so far. \n\n
Before I comment on another part on how it tries to be like real life, I must first explain the romance in this story. The boy named Kirito is a chick magnet. He attracts every female that comes into contact with him. So you would expect this to be some kind of harem. But it's not! He does pick a girl to romance, and it seems all the other girls acknowledge this. I am going to assume the rest of the show will display what a couple does.\n\n
Ok now back to how it tries to be like real life. Like with other MMOs, you can get married. A normal person would know it's not a big deal since it's just a game. But it's treated like a big deal in this virtual world. This is not a problem, it's what a married couple can create that is a problem. The third member of their family isn't really their kid, but they treat her like she's the most important daughter in the world! Within a day of being with her! \n\n
The story itself isn't bad at all, it is just the characters that make it bad. \n\n
The main character, Kirito, is nearly perfect. He grinds, grinds, and grinds to reach very high level and stats. He always has a solution to everything. Every girl he talks to falls for him. To raise the coolness factor with this guy, he receives a new skill (have to avoid spoilers for the poor souls that will still watch this crap). I am trying to think of his flaws right now...and maybe he has problems socializing? Nope, he can get along with anyone, and those he can't get along are just plainly evil or it's not kirito's problem at all.\n\n
I didn't think it would be possible for another character to be more perfect than him. A show having two mary stus? lol impossible.\n\n
Oh wait, his lover is one too. Except she's even better! And is the root of the food filler scenes. Her only flaw is that she can't live without him. Aka another female character that the writer decides needs a man in her life so she can function properly.\n\n
Honestly I was rooting for every bad character there was in the show, even though I knew kirito would dispose of him like yesterday's trash. The side characters are a lot more interesting than these two that's for sure.\n\n
Ok now that I'm done with characters and story, I'll move on to the next important aspect of the show, the art. If you can stomach boring perfect characters, long food filler scenes that amount to nothing, and can block out other characters mentioning how strong/cool/beautiful/nice/etc the two main characters are, I am sure you'll enjoy the art. Honestly this is one of the hardest things for an anime studio to mess up on, and that's drawing. \n\n
Although I do have one issue with the art, just one. The swords glow. It glows every time the character does an attack. And it looks really lame. But other then that, the art isn't bad.\n\n
Overall I couldn't enjoy the show. I stopped at 12 to save myself from the pain of watching it. I think I'll watch episode 24/25 just to see why the game creator did all this for. If you turn off your brain, I am sure you can enjoy this show too with it's delicious food, and light sabers.\n\n