Started this because I was a hardcore gamer once. I thought this would be funny because I heard it follows the main character, Kirito, throughout the completion of Sword Art Online, which happened to be a mmorpg unlike otehr shows about card games and such that never interested me and I always thought were shitboring. 
I think this could have been a good show, a very very entertaining one. BUT only for the people that actually play mmorpgs. Why ? Because there are certain "inside" things that "normal ppl" wouldn't really understand or better say perceive as being utterly hilarious. 
For example, if you area gamer like me, you will have fun realizing that the producers MUST DEFINITELY be hardcore players as well, otherwise i doubt it would have been possible for them to reproduce the gaming clishees so closely. You will definitely find yourself thinking "omg i was also a solo player!" "omg this happened to me too when i joined a guild" "rofl i also died when tried to open a treasure chest!" and similar stuff. \n\n
I suppose this show could have turned great for the likes of me IF it only followed the player's experience closely for the entire show. It could have been funny because, you know, when spending hours and days and maybe years playing a game we, the gamers, basically do what SAO's plot is about: we shut ourselves in away from the outside world. Althought we aren't really in a coma like in this show, we live in our virtual pointless space for quite a long time. \n\n
This show could have been intelligent if it somehow managed to mock the gaming experience rather than taking it seriously and thus disappointing, at least me. As an anime show, this is, without a doubt, absolutely terrible. It's basically a harem with annoying girls who pop up every damn episode with their "noob" stories, somehow Kirito has to save them (or not if they are out of luck). It's so repetitive that after watching for so long, waiting for the story to actually move on, you finally realize that you are watching an endless arc of fillers. \n\n
Why is this ranked 53?! How can this be ? I agree, the show might get back on track later on, but since for weeks we are just watching fillers, the boring kind of fillers that have no point whatsoever, I had lost hope that it will turn to be the amazing show that I expected it to be after watching first episode. Maybe the high rates were based on people's expectations also, not on actual values of the fillers.\n\n
Will continue watching just because I still have hope. But for now this is just a very very big disappointment.