(May have minor spoilers, read at your own risk) People are trapped in an online game and if you die in the game, you die in real life.  Sounds great doesn't it?  Well I am afraid that this is actually a very disappointing series (so far).
Note: This is my first review so I'm gonna try really hard to make it not boring.
Story-2: So people are playing an MMO in which they need to beat the top floor of the game in order to beat it, sounds normal right?  So they go floor by floor beating up boss after boss right?  Wellno, the first episode they explain more or less how the game works and in the second episode they fight their first boss (its not a spoiler if its completely obvious right?) and theeeeeeeeeeeeeeen they skip around 10 floors.  Then this episode and a few more revolve more around other characters and how they act being in this world.  So at this point I am guessing the story is more about the characters than them beating the game.  This usually isn't a problem for me, although if you want to refer to my opinion on the characters, go to "Characters:"\n
tl;dr - Not as advertised \n\n
Art-8: It looks pretty.  What else can I say?  The animation is done pretty well.   I'm not that big on graphics or anything so that's all I will say.\n\n
Sound-7:  It doesn't make my ears bleed but I don't particularly love the music in this anime.  The voice acting is actually good.  Nothing much else to say about this.\n\n
Character-1:  Cliche as hell.  Main character is obviously the strongest and most well known person in the game, all the pretty girls want him, bad guys are bad for the most generic reasons, and all the characters the show revolves around are boring and forever forgotten (most of them are).\n
tl;dr - They suck\n\n
Enjoyment-4:  It's bad, but its at least a decent time-passer.  Its funny to see how terrible it is.  Reminds me of when I watched Mars of Destruction\n\n
Overall-4:  So its an anime about the characters, but the characters suck.  Has a few action scenes (not really) that are ok but they don't happen all that often (weird considering that this is an MMO).  I don't understand why everybody likes this.  It had potential, but it didn't turn out all that great.  Its mediocre at best.  I will continue watching it and update this as unnecessary, but I say you should waste your time doing something else.\n
tl;dr - Don't watch this, go and do anything else.\n\n
Thank you for taking the time to read this.  Have a great day!