"This show is nothing more than childish story with additional adult scenes within it"
Sword art online is a very popular anime, no doubt about it, but however this anime not deserved to be this popular. appalling, horrible, pathetic is the best word to describe this show. Many people love this show too much, without even think how can that happened, why every nonsense scenes or moments occurred. And at the end that's all happened thanks to the main character, why is it? i will explain it later, first of all
The story is centered on anti social people who trapped in a Virtual Reality Massive MultiplayerOnline Role-Playing Game (VRMMORPG) called Sword Art Online where the player will die for real when their hp reach 0. however its a amazing idea to make a story takes time in the future about virtual reality game, that could make me looking forward to it when this show still on going. The story was great when i know all players in this game will die for real if they not struggle to survive, it makes this show more emotional when some of the characters in the brink of death, but however there is one of the 10.000 players can denied the systems of the game, and ruin the story.\n\n
After the episode 15 the story become even worse than before, the story turn into cartoon story for child under 5 years old, where the hero's girlfriend kidnapped by some one strange, and the hero take her back with a miracle that doesn't makes any sense. However too many people said that the story of this show is amazing, but for me this show is nothing more than childish story with additional adult scenes within it.\n\n
Even though the story is horrible, the art and sounds was great, i don't know how to explain it, but when you see the art and sound of this show you will think that it will be a great anime, and for me the first time i saw the opening theme of this show i really love this show and thought it would be a great show after all and make me have a high expectation about this show.\n\n
Characters, maybe this is why i really hate Sword art online. \n
The main character, Kirito is a person who will not giving up something important to him no matter what. He can do anything he want to do, in fact he is the chosen one from the 10.000 other players that exist. He can kill some boss at that game by himself, when the other players need to party around a hundred players to kill the boss. Kirito is just like a god of that world, he can do anything if he want to, even though he cant do that things, a miracles will appears any time !!! \n
if you watched this show you will already know that kirito ever in the brink of death situation, not once or twice, but more than 5 times, LOL !!!\n
Kirito is a normal player but he can defeat the Game Masters in a game Not Once, but twice. No doubt about it, Kirito is a overpowered main character that can do anything that act like a GOD in every game he played, Pathetic.\n\n
The other characters is fine, fine doesn't mean its great.\n\n
Enjoyment, to be honest, i cant understand how could people enjoy this show. This is annoying, pathetic, horrible too many scenes that doesn't makes any sense. For me this show is really make me suffer, every episodes every scenes make me want to crush my computer and say "How Could That Happened !!!".\n\n
Overall, this show is annoying, and when i know many people think that this show is great, its just makes this show even more worse. As i said before "This show is nothing more than childish story with additional adult scenes within it"