Some people likes it. Some people hates it. Some people finds it overrated. However, SAO is definitely one of the most anticipated, hyped-up, popular, and controversial anime series of the year. It is one of the most debated series with its various themes, characters, plot, artwork, music, and other factors. The series is adapted from the light novel written by Reki Kawahara, with illustrations by Abec.  It has gained enormously popularity despite the way it originally was created. Indeed, the series has earned mass amount of sales revenue, topping the sales' chart, spawning video games, manga, side stories, and last but not least, theanime series.\n\n
The anime series is adapted from the light novels of the same name written by Reki. He is known for his themes of incorporating a boundary between fiction and reality related to the cyber world as one of his other popular works known as Accel World. But that's whole other story. \n\n
I have to admit. I was quite excited with the pilot episode. The idea of being trapped in another virtual environment where our very own lives are at stakes is an eye catcher. It is dangerous. It is deadly. And it puts your skills to the test where you realize it's not longer some virtual game you play for some high score because once you die, it's GAME OVER for real. But of course, Sword Art Online isn't by all means any original piece of work. Series like .hack//Sign, Summer Wars, and even old school series like Digimon Adventures have these themes. Sword Art Online has most of these as sources and presents in a more dangerous way. In other words, it's all or nothing. Once you're logged in, you're not going to get out until you beat the game.\n\n
Welcome to Sword Art Online.\n\n
The series does bring promising ideas like I've mentioned before. The pilot episode shows the horror of the players' faces where they realize their lives are changed forever. The theme of conquering floors to reach a final boss seems intriguing and some of you watching the series might even wish you were there especially when you were younger and conquering floors yourselves like some classic MMORPG games. The idea of these all sound interesting and SAO makes a good impression at first. However, it doesn't last. \n\n
From the first two episodes, the series maintains its reputation. The promising trailer sticks to its point and we are introduced with some of the main characters. However, it later show signs of shifting apart. Out of nowhere, there are side stories that are presented. Additionally, some of the main supporting characters gets lesser and lesser roles. At some points, it almost feel like a “monster of the week” phenomenon where each episode presents a different side story. Oh, and the dangers of the SAO world seems to be shifted as well. Originally, there were pkers but the idea of them actually becoming a significant threat is weakened from the beginning. It is debatable how this series came together like this from the first few episodes to be honest. I mean, there are stuff of what we mainly see in MMORPG games but some of it just doesn't seem to shine itself.\n\n
Now, adaptations aren't easy and fans (especially one with such a large fan base) always expect some greatness. But did SAO achieve greatness? From the first half, certainly not. The side stories' episodes does bring some of the other mechanics and a more detailed way of exploring the SAO world. However, it masks itself of the real story and what's to come. It's almost as if it's purposely making the fans wait for what's to come in these episodes. The way this approach is being handled is a flaw in my perspective as impatience takes ticks is way in.\n\n
That's just the first bite of the dish though.\n\n
The series does eventually draw its back to the main story but divides itself into two sections – Sword Art Online and later on, ALO or known as ALfheim Online. So essentially, it's almost like watching a two core series in one package with a small break in between. \n\n
The package doesn't stop there though because coming with it is the characterization of the two main characters of the series – Kazuto Kirigaya (Kirito) and Asuna Yuuki. \n\n
Initially, Kirito is one of those loner guys who wants to keep to himself but has a kind and courageous heart who is willing to help others. However, that sort of personality doesn't work well in SAO or any MMORPG especially since joining guilds and conquering beasts requires teamwork and motivation. Thus, he makes friends with other characters throughout the series as well as being an official guild member. \n\n
Now, the friends that Kirito makes are all strangely of the opposite sex, in other words, girls. Yes, they play the game as well and what's more strange is that most of them seems to have a thing for Kirito. As the series progresses, it almost seems as if Kirito is forming a harem of his own. In fact, no girl is safe; Whether you're a beauty, a blacksmith, a beast tamer, or fairy. This is likely due to the fact that he is a much higher level, has a kind heart, and is protrayed as a “Gary Stu” character where he is able to overcome any obstacle with eace. Oh, and let's not forget the Desu Ex Machina factor where Kirito is able to solve an unsolvable problem with some divine intervention. His characterization also has a problem in which his skill level is portrayed as a very high level but the series does not portray on how he manages to obtain a feat. Furthermore, Kirito doesn't really seem to have an interesting personality. The only time he really shines is during his heroic speeches or interacting with the other characters. \n\n
On the other hand, there's Asuna Yuuki. Originally portrayed as an admired girl with equally admiring traits in combat, she is the one that Kirito shares a dynamic relationship the most. In fact, the later episodes explores some of their relationship that began from strangers, to teammates, to friends, and later to something more. As dynamic as that all sounds, it doesn't mix right. Some of the sequences are rushed too much and the deus ex machina factor comes in. Out of nowhere occasionally, the problem becomes a solution where Kirito uses his Gary Stu abilities to solve them with the help of Asuna. However, I do admit that some of the relationship between the duo are relaxing to watch that balances in between the intensity of the fights involving the bosses and the dangers of the SAO world. \n\n
On the ALO side, the series' relationship between the duo is drawn away due to certain circumstances. Oh but that's not all. Another character with admirable tits and a peculiar relationship with Kirito is introduced. The chemistry between them is more of one sided and seems more like just a friend zone scenario till later on when a startling revelation is revealed. It's safe to say that Kirito's development by then has weakly worn down especially with Asuna, yet they remain close at heart.\n\n
The overall characterization of the series is only drawn out mediocre at best. Kirito, as I've already mentioned before, is the loner type who only seems to have good spotlights during action and interaction scenes. Asuna on the other hand is seen as a strong girl who often presents herself as entirely different character – sometimes she's a fragile girl with tears, other times, she swings that sword like a boss and shows why she is known as Asuna “The Flash” Yuuki.\n\n
Luckily, the concept of the series does remain intact. In other words, the theme of the virtual world is still there. There are the bosses, the floors to be cleared, player environment, items being bought/sold/traded on the market, guilds open to join, and other things you typically seem in the MMORPG world. However, the exploration of these themes are generally just mediocre with no exceptional twists. Furthermore, there are the random fan service themes presented throughout the series with Asuna Yuuki being the star of it all. She is like the desire of what the fans want and sometimes compared to one of the other main characters later on in ALO. (both physically and mentally of course)\n\n
Dem graphics:\n\n
I will say describe the animation as graphics since the majority of the series is presented in virtual form  in nearly every episode. The artwork is portrayed as being slightly above mediocre. Every environment presented such as the city, guilds, sky, ocean, dungeons, etc are of the typical MMORPG settings. Even some of the monsters fits within the virtual boundaries. The way Kirito dresses is typical with his black outfit and standing out above some of the others. It's no surprise that he looks that way as if he was almost the leader of a wolf pack. On the other hand, Asuna dresses in ways that is portrayed as an female knight. Later on, it becomes more balanced with the duo in some more casual wear. \n\n
The soundtrack and music of the series are alright. The OST curtsey of Yuki Kaijura seems to be limited where we often hear the same rhythms over and over again. The main SAO theme that plays during battle seems also as if it's trademarked to Kirito, especially during his desu ex machina scenes. However, it does get to the point during some of the boss fights where the intensity boils up. The first OP song, "crossing field" by LiSA of the first half is actually well presented with some glimpse of foreshadowing and a montage of the supporting characters. The second OP song, "INNOCENCE" by Aoi Eir” from the latter half seems to be more of a monotone where we see mostly Kirito and his side with the addition of a new female character. The ED songs are just mediocre, however.\n\n
Enjoyment? I'd say this series is just slightly mediocre at best for me. The first arc concludes its story and leaves the viewers to a wondering of what's to come next. The certain events from the arc puts a nail into some of fan's original expectations with the side episodes and fan service being a main factor to blame. Well, the concept is still quite interesting and coming into SAO as an anime fan did satisfy me at that part. However, the characterization and the characters themselves are cliched and flawed along with some of the themes. \n\n
The artwork and soundtrack are there to backup the virtual environment. At times, it's serious and at others, it seems like a romantic comedy. And of course, SAO tries to present these all at once and it just doesn't work out as some may expected to be. To enjoy or not to enjoy? That's the question. It's hard to say really but some of the inconsistencies and weak development of the writings refrained me from giving this a higher score. In the end, this series is viewed from a different perspective to everyone. It's no doubt though that it's one of the most popular series of the year and possibly more to come. I know this review is quite long but time flies fast especially in the virtual world.\n\n
Thank you for reading my review :)