Whew, this is my first review, hope it goes well. Not normally one to write reviews but I feel like I needed to comment on SAO. I would just like to remind everyone below that this is a matter of opinion, and I am just trying to express my opinion on SAO.
SAO is somehow EXTREMELY popular, not exactly sure why, and before you rate this a thumbs down fan boys, read this review first.
Story (3) - As I'm sure you are all aware of, SAO is based on VRMMORPGS, which basically let you jump into a game as if it is real life. To saythe least, the story isn't very original. Instead of having an interesting, unique, and original plot, the anime relies more on things like "plot" (.)(.) \n\n
Art (8) - Animation throughout the series is well done. Other than a few shortcuts that are taken in the animation, it is very high quality. Props to that.\n\n
Sound (9) - SFX and music are well done and match the settings.\n\n
Character (2) - In my opinion, this is the point that is quite the stickler for me. As long as there is likable, and well developed characters, I tend to watch an anime. However, in the case of SAO, there is little to no character development. Other than Kirito, Asuna, and later Yui and Sugaha. All other characters show up for 1 or 2 episodes and leave, only to show up at the very end of the series. Furthermore, those four characters are filled with problems themselves. Kirito is much too perfect, being able to do anything even though there was no mention of it in the past episodes. In fact, in the beginning, he was just mentioned as a "normal" guy who plays video games. Asuna is quite the annoying tsundere that seems to have bipolar disorder. Her personality frequently changes without any cause behind it. Yui is lolicon bait and Sugaha is...yeah. Viewers are unable to make out their own opinion of the character, and are instead forced to take the opinion that the anime basically shoves in the viewers face. Basically, blunt and pointless actions are used to define the characters and are anything but subtle. Furthermore, villains are your everyday generic villains with no variety at all, other than poor reasoning behind their actions.\n\n
Enjoyment (4) - Putting aside poor characterization, plot holes, and other major and minor issues, the first arc of SAO was enjoyable.There was humor and it was just fun to watch. However, the second arc, Alfheim Online, was rushed. Characters in the Alfheim arc somehow become even worse than the first arc and it is not in the slightest bit enjoyable at all. Things got too serious and the entire arc just seemed pointless.\n\n
Overall (4) - Overall, this anime was poorly done. Although the sound and art was well done, an anime is nothing without either or both story and characters. In this case, SAO lacks both. However, the first arc was quite enjoyable in some aspects of humor. Therefore, I would give Sword Art Online a 4.