True story...I save the new episode of this show each week for a night that i’m Not feeling very tired but really need to get to sleep...if that doesn’t tell you enough, feel free to read on!!!
I’m just going to get straight to the point,because this show at its current point (37 episodes in), is bad.  It’s hard to write a review without drawing comparisons to Naruto, so I’ll get that out of the way quickly.  As a stand-alone show without any previous knowledge of Naruto and his generation, this is a 2 at best.  I feel like seeing the grown upversions of Narutos era bumps it to a 3 or 4. I find myself cringing when the old generation isn’t around, and getting excited during the few minutes that they actually show up for.  For now, until this series does something...anything...I would recommend a hard pass. It feels like a giant filler in a world that I just cannot seem to care about anymore. The new characters, the new generation, are either direct copies of their parents, yet somehow seemingly much worse, or just agonizing when they’re on the screen (boruto). None of the stories have been intereresting in the least, and the things replicated from Naruto, such as the genin exams,have been horribly anti climatic and beyond boring.  The episode plots are very generic and are created with the intent of shoving friendship and teamwork down your throat. Naruto had a lot of the same principles, but it was a lot more creative in getting there. \n\n
Something needs to change for this show to become exciting.  With Naruto you had troubled children growing up, many parentless, in a world rattled by war and terrorized by beasts.  Being a ninja meant a chance to help their village survive, and everything that happened was important and exciting. In this new world, somehow only 15 years advanced but everyone runs around with handheld games...., you have a bunch of seemingly spoiled children, who take what their parents did for granted, and act like little jerks (boruto).  I hate to say it but the world will have to move past Naruto and Sasuke for there to really ever be that serious threat like with the akatsuki, madara, and the 4th ninja war.  Those two are too powerful, and unless it wants to just be a dimension hopping, new super bad guy comes out of a portal type show, those 2 and a few others have to die...\n\n
That being said, if this show wants to continue being a new age, happy go lucky, ninja snob fest then I think it’s worth a skip. If it wants to head back into its roots as a ninja/action drama, then a lot needs to happen.  It could absolutely turn itself around and become a good show. If it does, I’ll update this if anyone reads it. If not, skip this and don’t look back.