It took me 83 episodes to finally realize my denial about how much of a tedious and boring this anime really is. I never would've imagined for this anime to be really all that bad, since I had high expectations form Naruto and Naruto Shippuden I really wanted to see what was next for Naruto, but I realized ever since he was inaugurated as the Hokage he is met with all-nighters doing paperwork and using shadow-clones to do everything else. Ever since the first few episodes we are introduced with a brief flash-forward which spoils the plot a little bit, a bundle of similar charactersthat are descendants from the original anime, and a ludicrous plot.\n\n
The Story: 3\n
I always decide if an anime is worth watching by the first episode, but my bias from Naruto and Naruto Shippuden hindered the fact that in the first few episodes we did not establish the plot or character motives making the story entirely pointless. \n\n
However, after watching an abundance of episodes I can conclude that there are story arcs that may seem intriguing but in reality they are just filler episodes to make the viewer watch more. As you get further into the anime, which I regret, you finally are met with the motives of some characters but are still stuck thinking what the direction of the anime is going. The moral of the story is that there is no objective or goal for the characters to achieve.  \n\n
The Art: 7\n
I would've given this a higher rating if Shikamaru's son (Shikadai) did not inherit that huge forehead.\n\n
The Characters: 3\n
Basically, cloned characters from the parent anime with subtle changes with the name, appearance, and personality. The rest is the same, take for example Shikadai, a descendant of Shikamaru. He adopted the Nara clans Shadow Paralysis jutsu, but most and more importantly he adopted Shikamaru's favorite line: "What a drag".  You can apply this principle with the rest of the new characters in the anime.\n\n
Overall Enjoyment: 5\n
I still hope for this anime to turn around and give it another chance at life, but somehow the directing of this show is too poor where watching has no purpose and I don't get excited when a new episode airs. I guess It is nostalgia from Naruto that obscured the fact that this isn't what fans of Naruto really wanted.\n\n
What else can I say, I am greatly disappointed with the direction that this anime is headed. The verdict for me is to drop this anime, don't waste your time like I did, leave this one alone. \n\n