UNBIASED HONEST REVIEW OF THE CURRENT STATE OF THE ANIME
Story 1 - Pathetic - Right now it's all filler with one actual kind of good arch from the Naruto Gaiden Manga, however, it follows Sarada Uchiha, and Boruto isn't in the arch at all. It's funny that at 33 episodes in the best arch in the Boruto anime is an arch without Boruto in it. Not because boruto is bad, but because literally everything else is filler. The Sarada arch is the only thing that's actually good because it's Naruto canon based on the Naruto gaiden manga, but it's still filler in this anime, becausewhile it's Narutoverse canon it's not Boruto canon and this anime is Boruto, not Naruto. The reason for all the filler is because they want to wait to let the manga get further ahead. Even with the good Sarada arch, I guarantee you that years later when newcomers ask us old folks who started watching from the beginning, for a filler list, we will tell them that the first 100 episodes +/- are all filler and you can literally start watching on ep. 101 without missing a thing, because that's when the anime literally starts. Honestly, why they didn't just decide to wait a year to let the manga get ahead is beyond my understanding, but w/e. The story score is subject to change given future non filler episodes, but right now because the show is 100% filler it gets a score of 1 - Pathetic, which is one more point than any filler episode from any anime deserves.\n\n
Art 8 - Very Good - The art and animation is really good. Not much more to say here except that the anime is petty and the characters movements are what we expect from a Narutoverse anime.\n\n
Sound 6 - Fair - Sound is good. Sound effects/folly's are good. The ost however is not so good. Pretty much a copy paste from Naruto and no real new songs as far as in episode songs are concerned. Idc about intro and outro songs because I skip all that anyways, it's just filler imo. So with sound effects being good and ots being mediocre I split the difference at 6 - fair.\n\n
Character 6 - Fair - The characters are fun, and the only upside about the filler is we get to see the characters build relationships with each other. The only problem is that this relationship building takes place in filler episodes that everyone will skip in the future and therefore no one will see the character building that goes on here in the filler. Also, you can only watch so many character-backstory-interaction-relationship-building episodes before you want to pull your hair out and get on to an actual canon story arch.\n\n
Enjoyment 4.5 - Decent - I enjoy it because I loved Naruto and generally enjoy anything in the Narutoverse. For this reason I would personally score my enjoyment and the likely enjoyment of Naruto fans at 6 - Fair. However, if I was coming to this anime cold, having never watched Naruto before, I feel the enjoyment would drop to 3 - Poor, because newbs would not be versed enough in the lore to know what's really going on, would not have any connection with this world and characters, and would likely be more turned off by the 100+/- filler episodes than a fanboy like me would. So, I split the difference and give it a 4.5 - Decent.\n\n
Overall 5 - Mediocre. This is the number I get when I average all the scores from the component parts, and for right now it about suits the anime. Right now Boruto is a Mediocre anime that you can skip. There is literally no reason to watch this anime until they decide to start doing canon episodes. Once the cannon episodes start to air, then my score is subject to change, but right now after watching 33 episodes of filler, you can skip this anime completely for now.