I've sat through every episode of Naruto and Naruto Shippuden. But doing so didn't feel like a chore(well mostly). Sitting through this on the other hand does. I wasn't expecting Boruto to be on the same level as its predecessors, but it's still a bit of a letdown. And for everyone who is saying "don't compare Boruto to Naruto", Boruto wouldn't exist without Naruto. Comparisons are inevitable and justified.
Story: At first the story is more along the lines of a slice of life anime instead of the typical action adventure fare that occurs in the Narutoverse. Times have changed. There is no reason for anyurgency and it shows in the plot. A lot of the early episodes seem like little more than filler. It starts picking up during the Chunin exams, but that is also the point where it becomes painfully clear that it's just not as exciting as its predecessor. And thus far the battles haven't been very satisfying either. And if I'm supposed to be watching a battle anime, I want epic fight scenes. Overall, it can be boring and is nowhere near as gripping as the original.\n\n
Art and Sound: I don't have much to say about either of these things. The art is fine. It's not spectacular but it isn't horrible, and nothing about the sound is particularly noteworthy.\n\n
Characters: Where to start. The biggest problem that I have with Boruto aside from the plot are the characters. It's cool to see the children of characters I remember fondly. The issue is that many of "the next generation" are almost exactly like their parents. Some have slight tweaks to make them a little more unique, but are still similar as a whole. Others seem like they are the exact same person as their parent. Personally I feel that many of them also lack motivation and depth. But I could deal with that on its own. No, what really sours all of this is the new Team 7 and their families. Except for Mitsuki. I don't have any issue with him. Mental gymnastics are required to justify his existence, which is annoying, but otherwise he doesn't really bother me. The rest of Team 7 I have a lot to say about. So much that they're getting their own paragraph.\n\n
Sarada is mostly okay. But her backstory is a freaking soap opera. And the entire thing feels so unnecessary and irrelevant to the overall plot. With that said, she does show character development and has a concrete goal. That's more than I can say for a lot of the other characters. As for her parents, their relationship is highly dysfunctional and is pretty disappointing. Now onto the characters that really irritate me. For starters, Naruto. More accurately I'm irritated about how he's now portrayed. He's unsympathetic and feels really removed from the boy I rooted for over 720 episodes and multiple movies. But that pales to what I feel about his son. Boruto is a lot like his father was at his age. He makes mischief, gets into all kinds of trouble, talks big and enjoys vandalizing the great stone faces. However, Boruto lacks the redeeming qualities Naruto had. Instead he comes off as entitled, bratty and selfish. He's also naturally good at everything and is just plain lazy. Oh, and the biggest problem in his life is that his dad doesn't spend a lot of time with him. Frankly, he isn't a character I really want to root for. And for me, that's an important element in a shonen series unless the MC is an antihero.\n\n
Overall, I'm mostly disappointed. Despite its faults it isn't a horrible show, but it doesn't come close to measuring up to the original. Hell, the only real reason that I keep watching is the nostalgia factor. The sad thing was that it had potential that was ultimately wasted due to a series of poor decisions.\n\n
TLDR: It's no Naruto. If you're a big fan of the series, you can try watching it for the nostalgia factor. If not, I recommend skipping it.