Hello Guys,
This is my first review about the Boruto: Naruto Next Generation Anime. As an intensive anime watcher who attaches great importance of stories, characters, art, sound etc, i will mention all points in animes as much as possible.
About Anime: Boruto: Naruto Next Generation is the sequel from the previous anime Naruto: Shippuden, which was in my opinion way more better in the matter of a story, characters, art, etc. as in this anime. Now first lets talk about the story which is awful and disappointing at the same time.
1. Story: In this Boruto anime I need to tell you this. This anime hasn't anygood story development. Its just bunch of filler episodes which are annoying because its like a circle of repeats. I can't write more because it would be spoiler information but what I can mention is this. The Boruto anime tries to evolve but fails after one or two episodes just because some filler episodes are destroying the hype for anime watchers and the characters have not a single development in fights, dreams, emotions, past, future, etc. The story isn't going further anymore. The characters arent taking their dreams or goals seriously. Instead, they are like children who are talking about life and school instead of awakening the interest of being a ninja to protect his friends, the family and the village which I want to talk more about the character developments.\n\n
2. Characters: The only interesting character in this anime is the Mitsuki, which has a good character art and an interesting personality. Boruto has the worst and annoying character development with Sarada I have never seen. Borutos friends don't have a single character development when it comes to what they want to achieve in the chunin exams or in the future instead of talking and eating as Boruto and Sarada are doing it. I know that Sarada wants to become hokage but the way they are going to achieve it is just awful. I mean they don't take it serious to become a real ninja who protects the village. Instead, the characters are now some children who are going outside, talking about how is you're academy life and meeting in the evening to eat something. They don't have the desire to achieve something. None of them has a deep character story with sad or good emotions from the past to show like Naruto, Sasuke, Gaara, Rock Lee, etc. As I said the only interesting character is Mitsuki when it comes to this points i mentioned above.\n\n
3. Art: The sad think is that the art is kinda the same from Naruto Shippuden. Of course the anime production wants to safe money because they are too lazy to make something for us anime lovers and watchers but instead they keep producing episodes with a poor detailed art, style and fluid animation like the Naruto vs Pain fight from Naruto Shippuden. I don't need to mention the best anime art from Fate/Series (Fate/Zero or Fate/Stay Night:UBW) as a comparison. I mean I like more the original Naruto Art because they put more details in fights (blood, jutsus, punches, moves) as an example which is the same now from Toei Animation about the One Piece anime today and the past.\n\n
4. Sound: The only good thing is that I love all Naruto soundtracks. My favourite composer who made also Fairy Tails soundtracks. Just in this anime I cant to feel the hype for the soundtracks when it comes to worst Boruto fights or moments.\n\n
5. Enjoyment: As I said this childish anime isn't enjoyable when you read all the points and arguments I mentioned.\n\n
Overall I am really sad that the Boruto anime got destroyed so hard by the anime production and as a fresh manga reader where Boruto has a better story development i am excited and happy at the same time but for this anime im happy that i quitted it.