Like many other Naruto fans, I started watching Boruto with the hope of seeing the characters interact with their kids and have fun together, now that there was finally peace in the Hidden Leaf. It would be cool to see a more modern version of Naruto, with new characters and a different plot to enjoy. 
I regretted my hopeful thinking that Boruto would be an action packed adventure or anything like the story of Naruto. 
The character Boruto himself is an obnoxious troublemaker for no other reason than the hatred of his father. Boruto goes on and on about how his dad never comes homeand how he is a worthless old man, and it makes me sad to hear these things coming from Naruto’s own son. Boruto is seen by his classmates as a hero and idol, the complete opposite of Naruto. I’m not saying it is a bad thing, I just think Boruto’s character is cliche and not as interesting. \n\n
The art was the only thing that kept Boruto from getting a one from me. The colors are pretty and very vibrant. The art wasn’t perfect, but a thousand times better from the show itself. \n\n
The story isn’t anything special, just the repetition of Boruto swooping in to save someone helpless, and defeating the really strong adversary with nothing more but a few shadow clones. He is always the hero. He is always the one who saves someone and is adored by his classmates for the cheesy stunts he always pulls. Within seven minutes of the first episode he has already defeated some bullies and made a friend with the “weakling he had protected” He is always the leader and drags his friends into his messages, and doesn't care how disrespectful he’s really being towards adults and to people he should respect. \n\n
Another thing I have to adress is the first minute or so of episode one. It shows a couple years into the future of the actual show. Boruto is all powerful and fighting a villian in the Hidden Leaf, only the entire village is destroyed. The villain he is fighting says: “Boruto, I will send you where I sent the Seventh Hokage.”, implying that Naruto was killed. You don’t just kill off your main character who is praised and loved! Even in a sequel! What is this, Akame Ga Kill!? If Naruto has over 35,000 favorited and Boruto has less than 700, why is Naruto getting replaced by his obnoxious son? \n\n
This series has dragged down Naruto and continues to be an utter disgrace to a show that holds a special place in my heart. I strongly recommend you do not watch this. \n