I see a lot of people commenting "Oh it sucks people compare it to Naruto" and so on. I'll address it and point out why these fellas complaining on people comparing it with Naruto, don't think enough to actually make that comment. 
First of all, the really straightforward point I wanna bring.. Boruto is basically living due to Naruto fans. Most of the people watching Boruto, aren't new to the Naruto series. 
Boruto on it's own isn't yet an actual anime by itself. There's no interesting plot and so on that would make anyone wanna watch Boruto, the main reason people do is because theylove Naruto and have hopes for what Boruto could potentionally be.\n\n
Boruto is basically still on air due to Naruto fans. Even the name is called "Boruto: Naruto Next Generations" so even the title of the anime claims to not be a fresh anime but just a continuation of Naruto. Once it start to develope into it's own anime that isn't relying on the main characters from Naruto and instead focuses hard on the main characters of Boruto and get a decent plot.. It's probably going to be a new season of "Boruto" which doesn't involve "Naruto" in the title. There's probably gonna be a hundred or more boring episodes that no one really cares about but they pretty much have to do those episodes and can't just skip a couple years like OP or Fairy Tail did all of a sudden..\n\n
Now you might think I'm a bit harsh on the anime, that I compare it to Naruto and that I'm just oblivious...\n\n
So let me tell you this, let's say Naruto and Naruto: Shippudden and all the Naruto movies doesn't exist. Let's say there's no such thing as a Naruto fan. Let's say all the stuff that happened in the anime we all love still happened but we never got to see it, we might just hear a bit of hints about it.\n\n
Let's just say, that Boruto here is basically the first anime about this universe. We see there's some kind of mixed mash between ninjas and technology, seems to be long time ago but also not really. We hear a bit of hints about this great war that Boruto's father was in and so on. Everything is at peace now, we didn't get to see the action, we were late to the party pretty much. If this was reality, if the Naruto series never happened but is just some kind of back lore in Boruto. Would you still watch Boruto?\n
I highly doubt it. Why? Because it's boring to watch. There's no plot really, there's these kids going to ninja school and doing weird shit and there's a lot of talking and not much of a plot or a character developement, there's a few cool stuff but that's about it. Not even a handful of cool events you were interested by. Would you still watch it? I don't think so. \n\n
41 episodes and there's been little to no plot, just hints at what Himawari's strengths and Boruto's strengths can be in 10 years. The show would have gotten canceled a long time ago and there's a good reason why it hasn't in reality and that's because it's feeding off the Naruto fans and the Naruto frenchise. \n\n
So next time you comment something like "Really sucks that people keep comparing this to naruto instead of just letting it be and taking it as it is." remember, it's alive due to Naruto and if everyone did stop comparing it to Naruto and take it as it is, everyone would actually manage to figure out it's not worth watching 200 episodes of a boring ass anime just because you miss Naruto and you have hopes for what happens after 200 episodes but don't care about the 200 episodes that you gotta watch until then. \n\n
I really do think Boruto would get canceled if people saw the show for what it is instead of "continuation of Naruto"\n\n
TL;DR Boruto is a boring anime that should be canceled but is kept alive due to Naruto fans that just wanna watch whatever happens in the cool future who doesn't care about the anime at all until it gets to that point. \n\n
Story: 1/10 There is no current story, there's hints for stuff 10 years from now on, but currently there's just no content at all\n\n
Art: 5/10 It's okay, not a huge fan, it's okay and haven't really been put to test yet. \n\n
Sound: 7/10 No clue what actually comes into the sound score, but voice acting is alright. \n\n
Character: 1/10 It's bad.\n\n
Enjoyment: 1/10 I actually don't wanna watch this anime but I don't have any other anime that I can waste 20 mins on that I don't already watch.. maybe keijo lmao..\n\n
Overall: 1/10 If an anime isn't enjoyable or interesting to watch the other scores don't matter, it's a trash anime and I honestly think it should get canceled instead of being a filler season for Naruto. \n\n
Once the good bits start popping up in 10 years, then it might be worth watching, ofc skipping the first future 200+ episodes (currently 41) and just get a 5 min TL;DR of the important stuff.