Well, here we are. It's almost 2020 and we're well over the century mark in terms of episodes for this show. Have things gotten better or have things gotten worse? 
Naruto and its sequel series Naruto Shippuden were massive successes critically and commercially that took viewers on a journey to adulthood through the eyes of a young and naive ninja. The second sequel series Boruto: Naruto Next Generations is trying to repeat that same success, but with a modern twist. Technology, attitudes, and characteristics are all modernized to today's standards, supposedly to give characters depth and be more relatable to today's viewers. Unfortunately, that's notalways a good thing.\n\n
Story: 5/10\n\n
The story starts with Boruto fighting an unknown foe atop the stone faces of the Hokage above a destroyed Hidden Leaf Village. Something big has happened. We all want to know what it is! Who could have done something as horrible as this? Then, it's backstory time. This is a literary term known as "in media res". We're shown something huge occurring and are thrown back in time to find out how everything came to pass. So, we're then treated to the long and massive backstory that no one really wanted. Predictable plots arcs, redundant filler episodes, and retreads of some story lines from Naruto and Shippuden. After over 130 episodes, we're nowhere closer to finding out what happened. Consequences don't really exist here.\n\n
Art: 7/10\n\n
The art is pretty good. Some episodes are much better than others in terms of quality, usually ones where large fights are happening, such as Episode 65 and Episode 131. The rest of the time, the animation is generic with bright, pretty colors and stale composition. It's not bad, but it's something special either.\n\n
Sound: 7/10\n\n
The sound is also fairly decent. Tracks and themes are played in moments of struggle, conflict, and joy that are reminiscent of those played in Naruto/Shippuden. While most of the show's themes were modernized to for the "next generation", the music has not, which is a good thing in my opinion. It keeps the feel of the show to be ninja-based. The only downside is that the same tracks are played during similar emotional points throughout the entirety of the series. If it's a happy moment, you get "Happy Track 01" played each time. Sad moment, you get the same sad song. Conflict, you get the "Let's Fight!" song. Rinse and repeat.\n\n
Character: 3/10\n\n
This is where the real struggle takes place. Characters should be the driving force of a show. You want to see characters progress and improve, learn from mistakes, and gradually mature as the series goes on. No one matures here. No one progresses here. Characters are obnoxious, self-centered, and some take up way more screen time than should be allowed. A few characters are interesting, such as Shikamaru's son Shikadai and a couple others from different villages, but most characters are just annoying, like the title character himself, Boruto, and Choji's daughter Cho-Cho. Others are just flat and stale, like Sasuke's daughter Sarada. Nothing really changes, so it's pretty disappointing.\n\n
Enjoyment: 4/10\n\n
The most common reason fans come back to this show is basically to see if anything has changed or improved. Has anything happened? Has a major character died? Have we found a hint as to the destruction from Episode 1? As far as we know, the answer is no. The enjoyment us fans get from this show so far is to laugh at some character's stupidity and naivete, then hope that the next episode will have some sort of improvement. The outcomes are usually disappointing.\n\n
Overall: 5/10\n\n
The show has some upsides to its heavily flawed storytelling and grandiose. It's immensely popular and word-of-mouth spreads pretty quick if something happens that could please viewers. The animation is decent and the soundtrack is nostalgic. But horrible characters and formulaic storylines keep this show treading in the mud. If you want to watch this show, keep in mind that nothing of consequence has really happened after over 130 episodes. Small things here and there have taken place, but in the end, its still back in square one.