This series has to be the worst of the whole saga. 
Not even his Dad was this cringey. Every single dialogue is either out of place, makes no sense or is predictable. As seen in Naruto, the whole meme "Talk no Jutsu" is present here as well, but with the difference that in Naruto it took at least 2 or more episodes for Naruto to change the villain's mind. While in Boruto, they make it so they change their mind in 1 second, talk about having a sense of speech. They also took the Filler Jutsu from Naruto but again, they didn't know how todo it. Why start a new saga, if it's all gonna be filler? Pretty much the only arc that hasn't been filler is the Shin Arc and that's it. Everything else, is blatant filler (And the boring type of filler). \n\n
There's no proper development or introduction for anything, not the story, not the new characters. literally nothing. The story is mostly a slice of life, with a slight sense of action scenes and mostly adventure. The story as said it is a slice of life, only because they just keep stretching it out by adding small portions of what a proper story could be, but they are just random. One episode they talk on how they want to be a ninja, on the other episode they go to another village, on the other episode they go to buy some kind of food, etc, etc. Is this seriously what they were looking for? At this point they seriously need to follow the source material, there's plenty of it, but hey! they just announced they will redo the movie with other characters... what a great surprise, but what a pathetic way to make profit, more than pleasing the audience, they are going for the money, and even if the series is hated, people will still buy it.\n\n
On the sound apartment, i can't say much. The music has always been one of the things i love of the saga, and this one doesn't disappoint. I like the fact that they changed it and now it's more of electronic music combined with rock and metal elements, to give it the feel that this is a new generation. So in this point, i'm pleased.\n\n
That's it for now, i haven't enjoyed the series as the hype i had before it came out. It's just disappointing to see how a series that was decent, went down because of a sequel. I'm not planning on dropping it though.\n\n
Story: 2\n
Art: 5\n
Sound: 6\n
Character: 1\n
Enjoyment: 2\n
Overall: 3\n\n