Scavenge. Slay. Survive.
This is what Sword Art Online should have been about. It should have been an anime that was a pure MMORPG in anime form, as it was made out to be. What did we get instead? 55% slice of life, 25% romance, 10% action, 10% plot. SAO is quite possibly the most overrated and overhyped anime I've ever come across in my anime years. SAO is highly regarded by its fans as one of the best Light Novels ever, better than Fate/Zero, Monogatari series, Haruhi series, Kara no Kyoukai, Welcome to the NHK and Baccano for a few examples. Granted, I haven't readany of these works, but for some peculiar reason, I have an extremely hard time believing this. Why? Well, this will probably get me some flame for being biased, but because the anime is bad. Really bad. Now, some might say that it's because the adaptation of the anime is bad compared to the Novel, but I pretty much say bull. Even if that is the case, it still doesn't change the fact story is extremly generic and so far has nothing I couldn't get from watching .Hack//SIGN. If I don't like the plot and characters in the anime, I most certainately won't like them in the novel.\n\n
But enough with that... What exactly is it that makes me dislike this series so much that I would call it the most overrated and overhyped anime I've yet to come across? Let's begin.\n\n
Animation: "The animation is fantastic and incredibly smooth every single scene! It looks absolutely beautiful!"\n\n
False. While I can agree that the animation is very good looking, it's not as beautiful and gorgeous as most people make it out to be. The setting is just another generic fantasy-like setting you've already seen before in oh so many anime before SAO. The artstyle is also very unfitting. What do I mean? Let me explain very short and simple - The anime is supposed to be serious and dark (keyword being supposed) yet the artstyle makes this world look like a fairy tale due to the bright colors and round character designs. And animation wise, as in movement, looks exactly like every other anime out there. The movements are just as stiff and movement-less as the anime next to it. The only times the animation is better than your average anime is when there's a fight going on, though the choreography in these fights are pretty boring. It's mostly just rushing towards the enemy and slashing away. They could've made the fights so much more enjoyable and interesting if they put more focus on making the fights more tactical and strategy heavy. \n\n
The only thing I could give props for, creativly wise, is how sometimes we see from the player's POV. While this was nice the first time, this starts to get very repetitive as you get to see it in every episode and the fisheye style starts to annoy you more and more. Fortunately, this disappears about halfway and we never have to see it again. But wait... That was the only creative thing they did, and now it's gone. I don't know if I should complain or be happy. \n\n
Even the less popular Ao no Exorcist which was also animated by A-1 Pictures was better animated than SAO in my opinion, even during the daily life events, and that one wasn't either extremly well animated. But that anime had much more interesting fights and looked a bit more flashy. Though that's to be expected seeing as that was a Shounen and this is a Seinen. Oh who am I kidding, SAO's obviously a Shounen.\n\n
Sound: "The OST was composed by Kajiura Yuki! Instant awesomeness!"\n\n
Wrong. While I do love Kajiura Yuki, whom has done some amazing works in some earlier titles (most notably Kara no Kyoukai), this is definitely one of her weakest works yet. The soundtrack is so far lifeless and generic and has nothing special going on with it. For being an anime about an MMORPG, I sure as hell am not getting an MMO feeling while watching this anime. The soundtrack is so generic that I could take the entire OST and put it over any other fantasy anime, and no matter how great the anime is, I would still get the same generic feeling as I get while watching SAO. It does have some nice tracks and the OST can grow on you, but as I just said, this is definitely one of her weakest works and doesn't even come close to her works in anime such as Kara no Kyoukai, Madoka Magica and the previously mentioned .Hack//SIGN.\n\n
Voice cast wise, it's very mediocre. The voice cast is very bad at getting me entranced in the dialogues since it sounds like they are always reading straight from a script. Only some characters have proved the different, however, those characters were mostly just side characters that disappear as soon as they are introduced. It also doesn't help that all female characters speak in a typical cute way, further detracting the fact that this anime is supposed to be serious. \n\n
Sound effect wise, it's good. It has everything you would expect from an anime that has a video game theme. Swords colliding, objects disappearing, slain enemies and menu sounds.\n\n
Story: "The story just keeps getting better and better!"\n\n
Nope. Well, to give it credit, it did have a solid first episode and a nice premise. People are playing a Virtual video game which they cannot escape untill they defeat the final boss. And if they are killed in the game, they won't respawn, instead they die in real life aswell! That's pretty interesting. Just a damn shame that it all went down the toilet the further down the anime went with the story. For some reason, A-1 Pictures decided to animate the side stories in episodes 3-8 which severely slowed down the pace to the point where the anime got even more boring that fillers in Shounen anime! That's not very good storytelling if you ask me! I see no reason why they couldn't have just released these episodes on the BD/DVD volumes, as this would make the anime extremely more tolerable and have a much better pace. But, does it get better when the main plot starts again? Yes, but only for a short while (short while=one episode.) After this short while, the story gets boring and makes you care less about anything. This is supposed to be a battle for survival, so why the hell is the story not showing us this gruesome world where people die in real life if they are killed in the game? Instead, it focuses on the bad romance between Kirito and his ever growing harem, which we'll get to in the character section.\n\n
Speaking of the romance, if you ask me, this is what the anime is about. Not the plot, you know the whole being stuck inside a game premise, but instead the romance of our main characters. And while I do say that this is about being stuck inside an MMORPG and the objective is about escaping, this only counts for the first 14 episodes. After those episodes, SAO goes over to a very boring and very cliché damsel in distress story.\n\n
And how can I forget that SAO resorts to miracles for both of its two arcs' endings. Asspull miracles at that, since these things are never properly explained, or not explained at all.\n\n
Character: "The characters are so believable! They are so full of life and relatable!"\n\n
I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that is incorrect. For starters, Kirito, out main protagonist is supposed to made out as a shut-in gamer Otaku. Someone who is antisocial, in so many words. So since he is just that, it's obvious that he would play as a Solo Player since he prefers to be left alone. Right? Then tell me, why the hell is he going around helping and saving more people than I can count if he's supposed to be a Solo Player? Kirito was written as a Solo Player for the first 8 episodes, and yet he helps people out during ALL of these episodes! This is a 100% contridiction to how he was claimed to be and act. But hey, we need some romance in this survival story, right? So let's throw in multiple girls whom are all after Kirito's virtual penis. The only reason why Kirito is helping out mainly females is because he's just looking for someone to bone. He finally gets one girl who is willing to give up her virtual virginity to Kirito, Asuna. Well then, Kirito finally has a girl he can have some sweet romance with. Nope. The romance between Kirito and Asuna is one of the worst written romances I've come across in an action anime. They spend so little time actually together were they would show off romantic feelings to each other that it's impossible to believe that they actually love each other. They are the typical Tsundere-Shy guy combo that you always see nowadays. And don't get me started about what happens after the first half. Oh boy, that's when things go from bad to worse.\n\n
The character development is barely there, mainly because these characters change personality more often than Aizen trolls somebody in Bleach. But what about the side character? Well... They're barely even there! SAO introduces a lot of characters during the first half of the series, but 75% (random percentage) of all those either never appear again (until maybe a brief cameo in the last episode) or appear way too little. They focus so much on the main characters that you start to forget that the series even introduced more characters. Not good, yo. When you create characters you need to split up the development and screen time of side characters and main characters at a good ratio. Sure, the focus should be on the main characters, but it's also important to not forget about the side characters, as they can be a good way to develop the main characters.\n\n
Value: "Best Light Novel ever!"\n\n
If this is what people would claim to be the best Light Novel of all frakking time, then I don't know what the hell people in their right mind are thinking. Because based on the anime, AND from what I've heard happens next, I see no reason why you would call it that since the novel seems to just keep going in circles and brings nothing new. If that is what people call A-Class writing, then I guess Kubo Tite is one of the best writers of all time.\n\n
And all the hate the series gets, this is your fault to blame. You, as in the ones who hyped this anime to be the most amazing thing ever produced. When you hype something as much as this one, you're risking damaging its overall appeal due to leading people into thinking that it's gonna be a masterpiece, only to be left extremely disappointed.\n\n
Enjoyment: "Best Anime ever!"\n\n
This could have been one of the top anime of 2012, but ended up as one of the worst of the bunch because of bad directing and awful storytelling. If the series had focused more on the actual premise, this couldn've been a bit more interesting - however - the bad decision to put the side stories among the main episodes, the poorly written romance and the incredibly cliché plot (especially in its second half) makes SAO one hell of a drag to watch. It had its few moments, such as an interesting first episode, and a pretty okay episode 10. But the majority of the anime is nothing more than wish fullfillment and fan catering, appealing only to MMORPG players, teenagers and otaku.\n\n
Best anime ever my ass.\n\n
And now for my own enjoyment; where's that anime adaptation of Chapter 16.5?\n\n
http://i48.tinypic.com/2v8041y.jpg