Story: What can I say about the storyline? It has its up's and downs as well as its "WTF" and "...". I can already see the creator of School Days trying to portray an image to the viewers that this is typically a normal life of a teenager would lead, but forgetting that not every teenager leads this type of life. Getting deeper into this, I would say the moral of this story goes beyond your ordinary imagination of ecchi and romance. All I can say is, prepare yourself for a story like no other, a story that even sometimes exist in reality and thatthings like this can happen. From emotions to physical pain, happiness, WTF moments and moments where not even a word can express what this anime is about. It's all for the.. you know what? I'm just going too 'cheat' my way through this review. Haha.\n\n
Art: I'm not one to judge on the art, but sometimes I have a hard time picking out who's who. That is if you are looking specifically at the eyes! The art is on a level that isn't medium, neither low. It's something good enough to get you through the dreading 12 episodes. Aside from the ecchi, the art is well drawn for a kid who's taking anime art class!\n\n
Sound: Not much to say about sound, but there is a few songs that were thrown into the anime that caught my attention. I believe because of that, I actually didn't move my hand to the mouse to skip some of the parts that made me angry.\n\n
Character: Okay! Aside from all the whores, sluts and the main character. I gave this score a two for ONE good reason. If you are reading this review before you start watching it, I suggest you keep your focus on Kotonoha Katsura. She is sweet, innocent, shy, new to relationships and very what's that word. Hm, figure it out yourself when you watch it. Katsura, deserve a +1 in my case, else wise I would of gave each and every character a 1 (too bad they don't have 0's). The characters each played a special role and possibly at one point, I felt the same way one of them felt. Trying to relate was something I did with each and every one of the character, sadly. It did not work out. They are all emotional and selfish! Like really now. From what I believe the creator of School Days, took love and just tossed it around like it was a volleyball thus creating a crazy atmosphere of insanely robotic girls wanting to kill and sex the next guy. Haha, do you believe me?\n\n
Enjoyment: PATHETIC. IF YOU WANT TO BE ANGRY THEN THIS IS THE ANIME YOU WANT TO WATCH! Don't miss out on a chance to call each and every character, BAKA!!!!!\n\n
Overall: I want my 12 x 30 = ?? time back. Thank you, no extra charge.