You ever cut your eyes out with a butter knife? Well, you will know the experience once you watch School Days. I was on the verge of just staying in my room for a couple days and not even feeding myself. Yes, this anime was THAT bad. Now by bad, I mean something other than the traditional "shitty" or "garbage" most people are familiar with. I mean, it's just so god awful that it left a sour taste in my mouth. I will expand more on this feeling and provide you with a somewhat accurate portaryal of this steaming piece of doodoo.
Story:
The story is verysimple to begin with, but then become very "unwatchable". It follows the school life of some guy (I don't give a flying ass about his name) and his relationship with two girls. There is a loudmouthed overspoken girl, Sekai, and the shy, quiet girl, Kotonoha. The guy originally liked Kotonoha but then like most guys, he becomes sex deprived from this shy girl and decides to screw the other girl for "practice". Blah blah blah, a few boring sex scenes later, a problem arises. This loser guy is now a horndog with no consideration for women's feelings. I'm not gonna ruin this marvelous (bullshit) ending for you, but it is very, um, intriguing. (You ever hear of the famous boat scene? Yeah, there's a reason why it's so popular.)\n\n
Art:\n
The art was ok to look at. It wasn't outstanding or new, it had the art most animes follow nowadays. There wasn't much physical action or movement in this anime, save the ending, so it was near impossible for the animation to fail. The art was probably the only thing I didn't puke at in this anime.\n\n
Sound:\n
The BGM felt very monotonous and I skipped the ending and opening so I don't have a deep opinion here. However, I must say the music during the final scenes were quite nice. It really let the series climax. (haha climax. Get it? I used a sexual joke for a sexual anime!)\n\n
Characters:\n
Fuck you. No, not you. Fuck the characters. If I could meet the characters in real life, I would murder each one for the sake of my own sanity. Well, the guy's friend was kind of funny. He was horny too, but he didn't go overboard and he provided some comic relief. Anyway, back to my thoughts for the main characters. I would chop off the main guy's weiner for his overhorniness and complete disregard for women's emotions. I would stab Sekai with a trench knife for her overall attitude and lies. Then for Kotonoha, I would give her a cookie filled with cyanide and my dog's diarhhea dump. I will NOT describe these characters any further. Let me warn you. You will hate these characters so much, that you will end up hating yourself. Oooh philosophical. School Days suck sweaty asshole, Confucius say.\n\n
Enjoyment:\n
*Snicker*\n\n
Contrary to my review, go ahead and watch this series. Cmon, you know you want to. I ended up watching this anime through peer pressure, and even though I wanted to cut myself, it did teach me some valuable lessons about womanizers and pimps. It's worth a watch, even though you will hate me and yourself for it. I don't think you can really say you watched "everything" until you watched an amazing frustrating anime like School Days. Go watch it please.\n\n
Cheers, you poor bastards.\n\n