If there is an anime that is considered "the douchiest anime ever made", then School Days is the one you're looking for. Infact, i was surprised that this wasn't produced or sponsored by MTV, since it looks like an anime that could have been made by the producers of My Super Sweet 16, Teen Mom, the US remake of Skins and Jersey Shore. Hell, if i were an MTV executive who wants to make an anime in Japan, School Days would be it. 
Before i go further, let me tell you abut one man named Tucker Max. He was an Ivy League graduate of DukeUniversity and around 2007 (The same year School Days was aired), he published a book called "I Hope They Served Beer in Hell" which tells of Tucker's harem tales of all the chicks he fucked.\n\n
Now, if you adapt "I Hope They Served Beer in Hell" into a harem anime with a twist ending, then you basically got an entire series of School Days. That's pretty much it.\n\n
The original visual novel was good, but this is not. And it's not even bad. It's just shocking, and it's not even that shocking. The only way to describe this anime is that it's the biggest middle finger ever pointed at the viewer. Seriously, this anime is made just to piss you off, and it did a great job at that. The visual novel is basically another take on the harem genre, and this was made to piss off not only anime fans, but also fans of the original visual novel.\n\n
Now the story is basically about a clueless idiot named Makoto who fell in love with a shy girl in school named Katsura. Makoto's classmate Sekai wants to help him get Katsura as his girlfriend, but in the process she fell in love with him. And then, a love triangle occurs which turns into a hexagonal bullshit harem between Makoto and almost every female character in this series which ends up as a display of really nice boats.\n\n
That's the story. Once you finished this series you'll start thinking "WTF did i just watch?" It's simple as that.\n\n
Speaking of WTF, let's talk about the characters. Seriously, this anime has the worst characters ever. The guys are douchebags and the girls are sluts. Makoto starts off as a clueless generic harem lead, but by the end of the series he becomes a dick-waving asshole that he even makes The Situation from Jersey Shore look good. And every character in this series wants Makoto's dick. Hell, they even turn the only sane character Nanami into a slut despite not wanting Makoto. And i fucking despise Sekai. Seriously, it's her fault for making moves on Makoto in the first place. Hell, she's the reason why Makoto became a douche and why everyone (including herself and Katsura) ended up being shit. She's a horrible woman and she is as bad as Makoto. Hell, Makoto and Sekai deserve each other instead of Katsura. \n\n
But the one thing that kept me from dropping this anime is the visuals, the direction and the sound. I mean, this was disturbingly well-directed and animated. Hell, this was directed by the guy who went on to make Katanagatari. But again, shock value must be well-presented. I mean, A Serbian Film was horrifying but it was still well-directed. And this was well animated for a studio that does primarily low-rate anime and hentai OVAs. \n\n
And then, there's the sound. The seiyuus are pretty good and Daisuke Hirakawa does a great job with Makoto. You also get side-character roles by the likes of A-listers like Chiaki Takahashi and Minami Kuribayashi, but the rest are mostly rookies and c-list seiyuus. And the music is very good. You get OPs and EDs sung by really famous singers like Kanako Itu, Haruko Momoi and others. It's a strong point for this series and the songs done by them fits well with the episodes of this series.\n\n
But sadly good visuals, direction and sound does not justify the douchiness of this anime. In the end of the day, you feel like you're gonna need a drink just to forget that you saw this. \n\n
So should you watch this? Well, i suggest you should try and watch it on a date. Have a 6-hour marathon of this pissfest with your girlfriend with lots of beer and pretzels. See how that goes\n\n
But the only other good thing is that this anime has a really nice depiction of boats. They're so nice, that i even signed up for a membership at a prestigious boat club in Monaco, and now i'm hanging out with ousted dictators, Victoria's Secret models, arms dealers, Republican congressmen and billionaires. So thank you School Days for getting me into boating. You get a credit for that.