When watching School Days I didn't know whether to laugh or cry. It's because this anime starts out in such a natural and welcoming way, you feel happy watching it. However when things start going wrong, terribly wrong... you just want them to stop but you can't. You can only watch as the drama unfolds before your teary eyes. 
Itou Makoto, a Japanese high school student, is your average guy. He's interested in girls, he doesn't really care about education and he's a bit of a layabout. There is however one girl he's particulary interested in. They always ride the same train to school andhe always glances at ther. Well one day he decided to take a picture of her with his mobile, what harm could that possibly cause? Besides they say that if you keep someone's picture on your mobile for 3 weeks then your love will come true. Well they eventually meet (through someone else though) and decide to go out with each other. Hmmmm.\n
And that's where the epic story begins.\n\n
You will be presented with the real world out there. Everything in this anime is plausible. Hell, it's probably happening somewhere right now. It's a story of how one girl fails to satisfy her boyfriend and he ends up cheating on her with another girl... and another... and another, it's a chain reaction. Once you set a man's sexual drive in motion, you can't stop it. It's like a speeding train. What makes it worse is the fact that there are a lot of willing and submissive girls around our character.  Add to that the fact that some of them are doing it becase they actualy love him and you have a recipe for disaster. \n\n
School Days will shake you. I know, it shook me horribly. Trust me, the first episode is deceiveing. This is not a happy anime, I just want to stress that. I went in expecting sillines and some kind of a funny story. Well it's not like that. Also the ending, I will not spoil it for you, so I'll just say that it's shocking. Yeah, that's all I'll say on that matter. \n\n
To conclude this review I'll say that this series is a must for every anime connoisseur. School Days made me thank god that I didn't have a girlfriend in High School. That's how powerful this anime is. \n\n\n
I for one, will never go back to it again.\n