School Days is what would happen if your average harem lead actually capitalized on the fact that he had a harem. An unbelievably fantastic show that does exactly what it is meant to do, make you uncomfortable. Of course when people watch an anime, or any show for that matter they watch it not to feel uncomfortable. So I can understand the reasoning behind the score to an extent. This is actually not a very good review.
Story: The base story is very realistic, it's about a your average high school boy who gets away with cheating one time. Now we all know how high schoolboys are, they are horny and if they get away with something once they think they can get away with it a million times. That is what this anime is about, but if you are someone like me who graduated high school a few years ago then you understand how real this story is and you know exactly how it will end. Well, Kind of.\n\n
Characters: I think your view on the characters can change your enjoyment of the show, yes the MC is a horrible guy, but there are actual people out there exactly like this guy and personally I loved watching him doing what he did because the consequences of what he was doing was building and building. The female leads are great, they act like women who are confused in love. Stuff like breaking up with somebody but wanting them back for no real reason. \n\n
Enjoyment: Your enjoyment on this show is dependent on how much you like watching somebody crash and burn. It's like when you play roller coaster tycoon and you make a roller coaster that kills everybody. Watching this anime is like watching the roller coaster in action, you know there will be a horrible outcome and you are merely seeing how bad it can get before it crashes.\n\n
Well, this was a horrible review. The reason I gave it a 9 instead of a 10 is because the realistic nature the show had lost it near the end just to give a different type of ending that will stick with the audience and also to teach a lesson. \n\n
Once again, this was a horrible review, but watch School Days anyways. It's something else. \n