I first heard of School Days as a psychological anime, and I totally agree with that. This anime shows you how doing certain things and not doing certain things to a girl will hurt their minds so badly it will be beyond repair. Literally. Romance is not a thing to be taken lightly.
Story: 8/10 *MIGHT CONTAIN MINOR SPOILERS*
It starts innocently enough. Makoto, your average high school guy, likes this girl, Kotonoha, and doesn't know how to confess, etc. Then, Sekai comes along, and helps him. A love triangle forms, and it's basically how an average romantic love triangle starts. Makoto starts being perverted, Kotonoha doesn'tknow how to react,  and Sekai starts "training" him in the art of getting a girl. This is where it takes a turn for the worse. Makoto starts having feelings for Sekai, and they cheat behind Kotonoha's back. Then, 2 more girls, Setsuna and Otome, started to like him, and a complicated and perverted romantic relationship occurs, with Makoto, being the perverted bastard he is, starts to bounce between the girls, having sex with them too (except Kotonoha, sadly). As if it could get any worse, a big plot twist appears. Seriously. I really expected the plot twist, but it was sickening nevertheless. \n\n
Then in the ending Makoto gets what he deserves.\n
The ending was when I was shouting "hell yeah!" to my computer because seriously. The ending was that fulfilling.  Makoto got what he deserves in the end, and trust me, you'll hate him as much (if not more) than I do. The scene was awesomely done too, and it made me sick to my stomach to see how horrifying the ending is. It almost justifies how the rest of the series played out, but not exactly. I found the story to be truly unbelievable. 4 girls liking the same guy? Them having sex and not getting pregnant? Unbelievable! Oh, I also have to note it's adapted from a H-game, so expect many inferences about sex scenes here. I guess that the original game had a harem ending, but there was a VERY messed up ending, which is what they adapted here.  The producers are assholes, to not even adapt the WORST ENDING POSSIBLE from the H-game, and make one themselves. According to wikipedia, there were 3 bad endings, where either Makoto, Sekai, or Kotonoha dies. I'm guessing they created their own bad ending, because the anime ending is not in there.\n
Rants aside, the story is great for sickening your stomach and teaching you a lesson: Karma's a bitch and how NOT to treat a girl.\n\n
Art/Animation: 9/10\n
The art fits this anime, with their eyes animated to show their emotion at any given point. As I said, it also tricks you into thinking this is your average romantic anime, which has its props, knowing how sickening this show is.\n\n
Sound: 7/10\n
The opening did not fit the anime. It was way too cheery knowing the tone of this. BGM was okay, it didn't really set the mood for me. The seiyuus did a pretty good  job with their characters, though I thought Sekai's seiyuu doesn't fit her character, but maybe that's just only me. And I felt sometimes their voices did not fit the situation either. Again, maybe it's just only me.\n
I just felt the sound was average.\n\n
Character: 5/10\n
I gave a 5/10, not in a good way, but of how much you'll hate the characters so much. Makoto is my most HATED character of all time, whose a horny, selfish bastard that doesn't care about who he hurts and who he doesn't. All he cares about is getting laid. When I first watched it, I really didn't get what's with the hate surrounding Makoto. Now after I watched everything, I know. To wish that he would stop being a stupid asshole and actually get a clue of what's going on was actually a great feeling, and when the ending came I cheered and cheered, as I mentioned. \n
I hated the girls too. They were your generic, anime girls, but still. Clueless as hell, mostly selfish except for Setsuna, who shows a little unselfishness, no character development, etc. The only girl I cared about was Kotonoha, and that was out of pity more than love. Overall, a 5/10. I applaud how much I can hate EVERY.SINGLE.CHARACTER. in an anime, which I thought would never be possible. The only thing that was good about the characters was the design, but that's it!\n\n
Enjoyment: 6/10\n
In terms of a psychological  anime, which I love, it was horrible! I didn't enjoy it, and found myself thinking "why did I watch this shit???" in the ending, despite the good ending. And I was sick to the stomach all the time, to the point where I had to pause the video to calm myself down. And I didn't like it. The first few eps were also a surprise for me, which played as a stupid romance, which I don't watch much.\n
TL;DR, I didn't like it. Call me a hater if you shall.\n\n
Overall 8/10\n
I found this to be very interesting. The characters I despite with a passion, and combined with a story like this one, it's a masterpiece in dark storytelling.\n
Morals will be learned. Hate will be formed towards the characters.  Shock will constantly enter your mind. This is first, and foremost, a psychological anime, so don't expect lovey-dovey crap. Expect to hate, and hate, and hate even more. This is what I experienced when I watched School Days.