This review contains spoilers for up to Episode 8-9 of the anime. You were warned.
"Another harem anime... Boooring!" is something you might say while looking at surface of School Days. Never could you be more wrong.
Basically, School Days follows Makoto in a huge story of betrayal and cheating. He goes pretty far with it: for example, once, he cheats on his Kotonoha (his gf) with Sekai (his "BFF") on whom he cheats on with many, many other girls a little while after...
To be honest, the more you watch this anime, the more you hate everyone in it. The more you hate everyone in it, themore you want to see how it plays out. It's an endless circle.\n
In fact, this anime nails just perfectly the feeling of guilt when you like something because you hate it. You will hate Makoto and his stupid decisions from Episode 4 onwards, as well as everyone he cheats with for letting themselves get fooled, but you'll keep watching. I guarantee it.\n\n
But School Days isn't just some random high school drama; it's a big satire on the whole harem anime genre: it shows how crazy people in these harems would be IRL and is pretty much propaganda against cheating on your SO!\n\n
Small parenthesis: the OST is pretty good and fits all dramatic or joyful moments. Also, although the opening fits the few first episodes, it still is funny to see a happy opening when the anime changes its theme entirely.\n\n
So, back to the anime itself, I really enjoyed it kind of in a masochistic way. Listening to episodes was becoming more and more painful as the series progressed, but I kept watching to see the ending. And I wasn't disappointed. Let's just say that, depending on which anime you saw, the ending can vary from being very predictable to incredibly surprising.\n\n
Truly, I think that if you stop watching School Days before being finished, you haven't seen the best part of the anime. In fact, the ending was like the cake on the icing (yes, I switched them up on purpose), so I recommend watching it all the way.  \n\n
My final verdict is that School Days is a very original concept with a very -cough- touching -cough- moral and will divide many people on liking or disliking it (just on this review section, half of the reviews are negative, the other half is positive). It is not a happy anime, and it shouldn't be. It is only about betrayal and cheating, as I said, and it portrays that brilliantly. School Days sometimes made me tear up, sometimes made me really mad, sometimes made me hit my head on a wall. You get so emotionally involved (negatively, of course) with the characters in such a short time (remember, SD is only 12 episodes long!) that you don't want it to end, even if it drives you mad. For that, I feel that School Days deserves a lot of praise.