I'm starting this review midway into episode 12. I've decided on everything other than overall score, which I'll fill in after the episode finishes.
Story: 9/10
The story is great for what it is. A highschool love triangle, set in as real a world as I can imagine.
Art: 9/10 
There's not much to talk about. The art is on par with most anime I've seen, other than the ef series, but if I rated all art against that, everything would be 2's or 3's.
Sound: 8/10
The sound is good, great voice acting, but there isn't really any music that makes me think "I love this song"
Characters: 10/10
First thingsfirst. I rate the characters on how human I see them, and how well rounded and dynamic. NOT on how well I like them.\n
They are all disgustingly human. I watch anime to get away from the kind of people in School Days. And I went through the show hating Itou. I can't stand him. But I know one hundred and one people just like him. Now, they may not get as many women as he does, but they treat them the same, if not worse. \n\n
Enjoyment: 6/10\n
The show was great. But I couldn't enjoy it. I spent more time with the show paused as I screamed at my computer "NO. NO. GRAH NO DONT DO IT. NOO. ARDGIHDRAHIAROA:OJAEWR. PLEASE. GOD DAMMIT NOOOOOOOOOOO" than I spent actually watching the show.\n\n
I am now going to attempt to sit still and watch the last 15 minutes of this show, without raging or punching a hole in anything.\n\n
...\n\n
Just finished...\n\n
Overall: ...\n
Overall I'm rating it a 10. And sound is going up to a 10.\n
The song that played from the time Sekai making tea, till the right before the ED was great.\n
And... \n
The ending. Was amazing. I cried. There's nothing I can do to describe it. I had so wanted a happy ending. But this was... Better closure than I could have ever dreamed. I can not say that I would ever recommend this show to anyone. It made me rage more than anything I've seen before... But the ending made everything better, in a depressing way.. I was planning on finishing Higurashi Kai, or making an AMV, or playing guitar, or writing a story, or drawing something, after I finished School Days... But now I think I'm just gonna go fall asleep depressed.