Okay so this is going to be a long review but believe me... once its over it will definitely be worth it
first things first.... this anime is not to be compared with other anime like toradora or clannad... the reason for that is that the genre are COMPLETELY different.
i don't understand why people forget that this anime is under the genre 'tragedy'; most of the times i've seen people saying that the ending of this anime was really bad. this is a personal review which will be talking about this in detail.. so bear with me!
to start off things..
STORY: one of the most important thingsin any anime. the story ( may contain spoilers) was typically about a highschool boy who started liking a girl, kotonoha, who comes to school in the same train as him. knowing nothing about making a girlfriend.... he asks for some help from his friend sekai. ( which is technically the most hated anime character all time of almost every single person who watched this anime but anyway) with her help they successfully start dating. one day, out of the blue, sekai, confesses her love before him. thats when everything goes blank.....now  slowly he starts to fall for sekai and completely forgets about kotonoha and maybe thats y people hate this anime so much ( i'll be leaving the ending part for later :p )\n\n
NOTE: one of the most important things that people don't notice in this anime is probably that while he was dating kotonoha, he was also seeking help from his other friend who used to lend him some 'flirting' books once in a while.. and because he knew close to nothing about how to handle girls... he did exactly what was written in the book because of which things ended the bad way.....\n\n
Important Note:   this is a different but  the most important note as it is important for you all to know that there is also a visual novel for this anime . and apparently this anime was based of it. whats surprising is that there were about 20 DIFFERENT ENDINGS to the show but they decided to go with this one as they probably thought people would find it unique but i guess it had the opposite effect.\n\n
now lets fast forward....... \n\n
ART: really nice and technically the best choice of art suited for this type of anime as it was very nicely showing every single emotion of the characters. one thing to note here is that when there is a sense of hate or disgust towards something people often tend to ignore its positive factors... thats how human nature works sadly...\n\n
SOUND: amazing again... especially the opening which suited the anime well. all the dubs were also pretty nice. I dont think people should have any problems with the sound.\n\n
ENJOYMENT: i don't know bout u guys bt i really , enjoyed this show.. if not every episode but i definitely loved the show as a whole . \n\n
Now here's something important... its not like i loved every single aspect of this anime. there was surely one thing that i really hated as well and that was:\n\n
VIEWER INTERFACE: its as everyone says, this anime is technically not made for the people bt is made just as an anime.. the creators have not taken into account that what the people like in an  anime..in the beginning it was seeming to be like a slow paced romantic anime.... the middle was something really frustrating as the protagonist, the most important piece of any anime, became IRRITATING! and just the viewers needed a break from all the torture... came the ending which was too much for the people to dig in at the time..... thats y in this field, i'll be giving this anime 1/10.\n\n
NOTE: although the viewer interface is bad... it doesn't necessarily mean that the anime is bad as well. but without knowing this people mostly mistake to give the viewer interface rating in place of the overall rating.\n\n
CHARACTERS: i don't think i will be talking much about this section of the anime because i think u all are already well informed bout it bt i would definitely say that although it wasn't the strongest point of this anime bt still i don't hate it as much as other people do. i can say so as just like very few anime you will still remember the names of atleast some of the characters for a long while because of all the controversies around the anime and that bring me to my final topic....\n\n
OVERALL: there are definitely few if and buts in this anime bt everything put together i think this anime is nothing less than a masterpiece... i've surely seen people talking BS bout this anime bt i don't care because i think that it was amazing i loved it because of alot of reasons bt one of the biggest reason was that this anime is really UNIQUE. i had never seen any anime like this and i'm pretty sure that the chances of such an anime to air again are almost none existent.\n
i will also add tht its no wonder that people didnt like it as much as i did because this anime is only for a few no. of people.. people who can completely watch series like higurashi without droping it down in the middle because of all the gore so basically its an anime for stronghearted  people who can watch a romantic anime with a sudden gruesome twist~\n\n
CONFUSION: there are some things that really confuses me... no, i'm not talking bout the anime i'm talking bout the people... why do people always search for negativity in an anime.....now i'm going to tell you 2 facts bout this anime and who watched it\n\n
1. some people have given this anime an overall rating of ..1! no surprise well then lets leave aside the overall rating and talk bout something else... we all know that the art and sound of this anime were splendid then tell me y have most of the people given this anime's art and sound field a ranking of 1 too!!!! Now that is surprising!!\n\n
2. despite of its bad review this anime is actually one of the most popular anime!! \n
its true!!\n
although probably because of the controversies but yeah at least its famous :)\n\n\n\n