School Days is a psychological anime first and foremost, do not expect a heart-warming romance set at school as the title might suggest. The anime explores the dark side of relationships and the negative effects they can have on people’s mind.
The concept of a love triangle is nothing new and for those who have watched romance anime before will immediately recognise some familiar patterns, however, the way School Days deals with this concept is something many anime have not done. Instead of focusing on the positive aspects that come with relationships the anime focuses on the negative aspects; it shows us what jealousy can doto people and how they deal with realization that their love is unrequited. \n\n
The first part of School Days is spent developing the relationship between Makoto and Katsura with the assistance of Sekai. These scenes consist of Sekai teaching the two how to approach and communicate effectively with one another. During these scenes it was interesting to see Sekai’s feelings for Makoto start to manifest themselves; at first she was fine with watching but like most people in love they cannot help but desire the object of their affection. This is where the psychological part of the show comes into play as we soon find ourselves with scenes of Sekai getting intimate with Makoto under the guise of ‘special training’; we witness her go from feeling guilty about seducing Makoto to not caring about the consequences of her actions.  \n\n
The culmination of these scenes ends with Katsura witnessing the affair between the two, delivering a huge blow to her psyche, triggering a psychological breakdown. This event signals a shift in the shows atmosphere as the rest of the episodes focus on the effects of cheating; Katsura refuses to believe what she had seen and insist to everyone she is still Makoto’s girlfriend; Sekai tries to come to terms with what she has done; and Makoto begins to believe he can continue cheating despite the fact he knows his actions are wrong. The accumulation of these thoughts are what serve as the ingredients to the finale, involving the three finding a solution to their respective problems.\n\n
The personalities and designs of the characters presented in School days are hardly original; the main characters and the supporting cast can all be found in any other school romance anime, however, what separates them from the countless other characters found in the romance genre are their actions. \n\n
Sekai, one of the two main heroines in School Days is a character whose motives and actions can only be called irrational. She is in love with Makoto but instead of confessing her love for him she goes out of her way to please him by introducing him to Katsura; effectively giving away the object of her affection to someone else. During the course of series I found her to be just as despicable as Makoto. Even though she felt guilty for betraying Katsura and tried to stop what was going on between her and Makoto, she never once tried to apologise, instead she chose to avoid her, deluding herself into believing her actions were permissible simply because Makoto and her friends said they were. \n\n
The other heroine Katsura could be labelled the victim of the Makoto and Sekai’s selfishness. Her character can be defined as an innocent and naïve high school girl, with no experience with boys. I found this part of her to be quite realistic, it was easy for me to believe a girl with a sheltered upbringing like herself would have trouble interacting with the opposite sex. \n\n
Seeing Makoto cheating on her with Sekai causes her extreme psychological pain leading to some rather bizarre changes in her personality. I feel like this was exaggerated as it was hard to believe someone would do the things she did, if they found out the person you love is no longer interested in you, however, her actions may plausible if you take into account that this was her first love and like most people in a relationship the last thing they want to think about is that their partner does not love them. \n\n
The main character Makoto is probably one of the most despicable characters I have ever seen and easily one of the most hated characters in the show. He could be best described as an indecisive coward, throughout the show he is constantly thinking about himself and refuses to acknowledge anyone else’s feelings. All his choices are made solely for his benefit; he should of broken up with Katsura the moment he realised he was no longer in love with her, but instead chose to avoid her.\n\n
Nonetheless, I was surprised he felt guilty about cheating and at times even thinking he is the worst because of it, although, this did not last long as he quickly forgot about these feelings and continued to cheat on Katsura, whilst behaving like he has done nothing wrong.  \n\n
After observing Makoto’s actions I realized he might be like other teenagers his age who had mistaken love for lust. What he did was perhaps what the average teenager would do given the opportunity, assuming most boys his age are only interested in the physical side of relationships i.e. the sex. \n\n
In the end, School Days may fail to deliver a great romance story, however, it does succeed in illustrating the negative aspects of relationships and the effects cheating can have on people’s psyche.\n\n
Therefore, I encourage everyone to watch School Days for the sole purpose of learning just how fragile the human mind can be and how cheating can lead people to make some very irrational decisions.