This is my first ever anime review so don't hate if it's not perfect. I find it really funny that none of the reviews for this anime are above 5. People like to hate I guess. I think this is definitely one of the best animes ever made and doesn't deserve all the hate that it gets.
Art: 10
Everything in Sword Art Online is beautifully done. The art is AMAZING. Every scene has amazing backgrounds and the character designs aren't lacking in the least. The battle scenes are so well that it doesn't look choppy or like the producers just wanted to get through the scene.They put just as much effort into each scene to add to our enjoyment.\n\n
Sound: 8\n
OST is amazing and that's it. No need to go in depth because the music fits so well with the show and with each and every scene. Not to mention the OPs and EDs are both amazing.\n\n
Story: 9\n
The part that bugs me the most is when they say that this has a boring plot/story. HOW BLINDED CAN YOU BE? The characters are trapped inside the game of Sword Art Online and if they die in the game, they die in real life. There is no way that this plot point is boring. We follow the male protagonist named Kirito who was in the beta test for the game. He is outcast from everyone else due to that fact and therefore becomes a lone wolf. Each episode of the anime came with suspensions and excitement. You never clearly knew what was going to happen until it happened (unless you read the light novels). I will admit that the second half of the anime became a little bit more predictable but was enjoyable for me nonetheless. \n\n
Characters: 7\n
The characters in Sword Art Online feel like real people for the most part. They interact with each other like real people and have EMOTIONS. They aren't bland but all there emotions come from their feeling of being frightened because at any moment they could die. They are trapped inside a game where they can't get out and if they die in the game, they have no future. They face this challenge with either bravery or cowardice. The characters are really easy to like and you want to them to beat the game and to head back to the real world. You know that with each coming episode that they may die, giving you the need to attach to each character for the time you see them for you don't know when they will be gone. The romance between the characters is amazing as well. Best since Clannad in my opinion.\n\n
Enjoyment: 10\n
I loved every episode and couldn't wait each week for the next episode to come out. That new episode each week made the top 5 things I need to do each week. 1. Breathe 2. Eat 3. Sleep 4. Watch the next episode of Sword Art Online 5. School. I was deeply saddened when the series came to an end. It was one of the best experiences I have had. I can't wait for a season two. I know they are going to have one because how could the producers leave us now when Sword Art Online is definitely one of the most popular anime to date. \n\n
Overall: 10\n
This anime is one of my favorites and I doubt there will ever be a fantasy/romance anime that can be better than this. Each episode was an experience for me. It wasn't just another anime to pass my free time. Everything from sound to story made this anime really enjoyable. This show definitely doesn't deserve the hate it gets from reviewers. I recommend this show to everyone I can, especially people who like Romance and Action.