I'm doing this review in 2 pieces, the first one is a simple review and my opinion. The second one is more about why this is a bad anime that goes beyond the scope of a review.
Story: The story starts out simple enough, you got your protagonist guy that takes a liking to a girl and all is happy until he starts doing things. At some point you're going to close your eyes because you can't bear to watch this stupidity anymore. Bust still a very plausible premise (actually no I'll get to that later) with a main character that's just so stupid and decentprogression.\n\n
Art: This is actually nice thought I had difficulty recognizing characters because they share the same school outfit and similar designs.\n\n
Sound: This is also very nice. I really liked the background piano musics that sets the tone for some lighthearted moments and the ending song when big revelations happen.\n\n
Character: I think i've made my point that the main character is a total freaking idiot without a care in the world. But Makato is a saint compared to a certain someone I'll get to later.\n\n
Enjoyment: Truth be told after I finished watching I felt happy I watched it. It felt like it made me a better person.\n\n
Now on to the second part. This will have disturbing spoilers from the entire days series and before that.\n\n
Something you won't know by watching this anime is many of the characters reasoning behind their decisions. Such as why Sekai and Setsuna both love Makato. Setsuna does everything in her power to get Sekai and Makato together but kisses him twice and later sleeps with him. Also Sekai seemingly kisses Makato just to tease him but there's a flashback scene explaining why both girls are infatuated with Makato. This is one of the many things that was dropped from the anime that results in the anime looking like people with 69 IQ interacting with each other.\n\n
Another thing you won't find out is actually all the characters are related. There's Makato's father who lives with Itaru that's named Tomaru Sawagoe. Now he's just the devil himself. In addition to being Makato's father he's Sekai's grandfather on both her parents and Taisuke's grandfather, Setsuna's grandfather on both her sides and her great grandfather on her mother's side. As if that wasn't bad enough Setsuna and Sekai despite being a generation apart share a father whose Tomaru's son (Makato's half brother), Sekai's mother is also Tomaru's daughter from someone else (that makes Sekai children of 2 half siblings with the same father) and Setsuna's mother is Sekai's cousin. This effectively makes Makato Sekai and Setsuna's half uncle on both their sides and Setsuna's great uncle on her mothers side. Tomaru also apparently impregnated his great great great granddaughter when she was in kindergarden using drugs so they can have children early. She is also impregnated once by Tomaru's son/grandson from someone else. The fact that Itaru lives with him raises concerns. This is such a big mess that makes you wonder who in their right mind thinks of this.\n
Everyone is related to Makato (except the Katsuras who have managed to escape this tangled mess of a family tree). Almost everyone is inbred except Makato, Itaru and Katsura. This makes me get a whole new perspective on this anime.\n\n
And finally this anime was adapted as the worst possible version of the visual novel because it took every bad things from the novel and crammed it into an anime without thinking about the reasoning of those actions. Because all these happen in the anime which can't happen in a single playthrough of the novel it makes no sense whatsoever. On the other hand the visual novel has less things happening in a single playthrough so there's reasoning behind people's actions that doesn't make them look like idiots and some of the endings are truly touches your heart. Because this is still a review I can't recommend you to play the visual novel but I can recommend you not watch this abomination.\n\n\n\n\n