** Following may contain minor spoilers, but nothing of great influence **
One or more reviews of this anime claim that it's theme is about how you shouldn't cheat on your girlfriend, which I disagree with. It's a shame to spoil an anime like that saying it's plot/story is this simple. In the end it might be the story's moral not to cheat and screw around with other's emotions by acting out of personal desire.
The anime starts as a beautiful love story and later twists into some kind of forbidden/secret love. From there it becomes a quite sad story as there is a lot emotional painbetween some of the characters. At this point you start to dislike the main character Itou, as he handles others' emotions of love and desire in a wrong way, and only acts out of his own personal desire. As other reviews may mention, you WILL hate the main character in the last third of the anime, as he acts against what you as a viewer want to happen.\n\n
Story\n
The story in itself is very good; as stated above the theme of the story twists and the sad aspects somehow mix together and form story that I couldn't put away. I felt caught by the story from the very beginning till the very ending, and even after watching it I had it troubling my mind for several hours. I watched the entire anime of 12 episodes in a row and couldn't let it go. I think this should be enough to describe how I think of the story :)\n\n
Animation\n
There are no significant special effects, as there is not much real action or &quot;spells&quot; that require this, instead the anime uses an nice style that suits my taste regarding the genres.\n\n
Sound\n
The seem cool to me all the way though. Again here there are nothing extreme that require some cyper sound, just the daily speech and environmental sound and music as needed for the anime.\n\n
Character\n
The story doesn't go very deep into the personalities or characters. You only get to judge upon the characters' from their present actions. There are only a few flashbacks that helps you settle the character's emotions and feelings towards each other.\n\n
Enjoyment\n
As I might have given the impression of already, I really really liked the show, and therefore I strongly advise people to see this anime if they have interest in its genres.\n\n
Note: You will dislike the main character Itou at some point of the anime so much you can call it hate and that he really annoys you, but beware that this is the anime's intentions and you shouldn't be fooled to back out of it because of this. This anime is truly a masterpiece of you've got nerves to endure the mental pain.