It's taken me a bit of time to get around to doing this but seeing as how this anime aired so long ago and is still the topic for a lot of debate; I thought I'd write a review on it. Reason being I feel that alot of the people who have watched this and show alot of hate for it is simply because they didn't want anything unexpected.
Story: 7/10
This is where alot of people have the hangups when it comes to this anime. Personally I think the story is pretty decent. However the first few episodes are slow even for what looks like ashallow boy meets girl anime. As the plot gets in to the mid point, it starts taking a darker turn which seems to be the main complaint from people. The thing that alot of people don't realise when it comes to a situation that the characters find themselves is sometimes there isn't an ideal solution. The characters are teenagers after all and at "that age". By the end, things spiral out of control but it's not an unbelievable turn of events. Hate and jealousy are powerful emotions which can drive even the happiest and carefree person to things they never thought they were capable of. I won't spoil the end but you will either love it or hate it.\n\n
Art: 7/10\n\n
The art is nothing special, the characters have decent designs on the whole and the dingy backgrounds on some of the scenes are quite fitting, especially as the story draws to it's inevitable conclusion.\n\n
Sound: 6/10 \n\n
Once again, it's nothing special but it does the job. There are no real memorable tracks in the OST. The voice actors are pretty good though, Setsuna's in particular stood out to me. How she didn't get more work seems to be a mystery though.\n\n
Character: 8/10\n\n
This is the other main part where people have hangups. Plenty of people believe all the characters should have been torched in a house fire. However what you have to take into account is the age and mindset of the characters at that age. Makoto despite being almost universally hate-able is not unrelatable. Many teenagers who are the same age in reality would do everything he did and more given the opportunity...I probably would have been the same myself in his shoes to some extent. It seems to be an unforgivable sin for a teenage boy to have commitment issues in an anime which is something which confuses me no end. I think most people have cheated in their lives at one point or another yet we don't get alienated by everyone for it. However I digress...\n\n
The other characters are also topics for discussion. Kotonoha in many people's eyes seems to be nothing more than a victim throughout the series. In my own opinion, if she wasn't so sheltered and abit more aware of things around her instead of being so unrealistically clueless she wouldn't have been as hurt as she was. However, there are people who will consciously blank out things that will hurt them so I suppose the attitude is not without merit.\n\n
Sekai I feel is the most real of all the girls in the show. I had friends that were just like her when I went through high school (A while ago lol). It's typical of girls her age to have a hard time expressing themselves romantically and still be bubbly and spontaneous. Many people blame her for warping the plot but I don't believe that at all. All of the characters in some shape or form are guilty of pushing the plot to the inevitable conclusion.\n\n
Enjoyment: 9/10\n\n
Yes, I enjoyed School Days, once the drama started it was hard not to watch to the end. Sure you want to punch Makoto for hurting people. I wanted to give Kotonoha a good smack and tell her to let him go. But it's things like that that add to the enjoyment of a show. It's originality is where it's strength lies. Whereas most anime in the romance category will give you male leads too scared to even look at a girl let alone anything more. School Days delivers a breath of fresh air to a very overused genre. It's also one of the most conclusive as well as infamous endings in anime history which alone makes it worth looking at.\n\n
Overall: 7/10\n\n
I rate it a high 7 overall. If it wasn't for the slow start it would be a bit better. I would have loved a couple of OVA's showing endings which were a bit happier as the game the anime is based on has over 21 different endings. It would have been really nice to see some of the others animated.\n\n
In retrospect, I feel this show has WAAAAAAAAAAY too many haters who simply want some "feel good harem fluff" instead of something darker and more real. If you want to watch an anime riddled with despair then give this a shot. You won't be disappointed.