Hmm... well I have to say that it was somewhat painful for me to watch this anime. The reason for this is because I kept feeling a huge urge to reach in my computer and try to slap some sense into some of the characters. (WAAH!! Its a drama!)
Story:
I don't really know the definition of harem but if that's code for drama then I would have to agree. This show takes off pretty quickly on what I thought what would be a boy meets girl and they have 12 episodes to get together kind of thing. Instead it turns into what could possibly be ananimated soap opera that includes the whole package of romance, making out, and betrayal. I usually am not one for the whole drama and stuff but School Days did a good job in pulling me into the developing story that never stopped being exciting. Then after a few episodes I started to wonder whether or not they changed the writers, because past midway into the show it took an interesting turn. Sure it was a big change turning this innocent love triangle into what might be better defined as a hexagon but, it definitely made it fun to watch (made me laugh =P). Also concerning the ending I would say even if you don't like School Days from the start don't give up to easily, seeing as its only 12 eps long and has a interesting way of ending a good show.\n\n
Animation:\n
There's not much to say about animation, but I was kind of confused at some scenes where I saw little mistakes like a character missing a pinky. Also sometimes there were other little things like not bothering to draw in the extras or when a character would be far away they were more lazily drawn. Besides the characters the background itself was pretty a constant theme based around school. Animation was nothing special but still nothing bad...\n\n
Sound:\n
The theme songs seemed to set up the show in a deceiving way by making it look all innocent like. If they were to get a more Higurashi like theme song it would make more sense, but they fitted to be what they were tagged: Harem. As for voices and background music, well the voices were all good and matched up with the personalities of the characters and all. For background music, the weird thing is I don't remember hearing any BGM, but that only means it wasn't special or horrible enough to remember.\n\n
Character:\n
What do you get when you find pair up a clueless sex-driven retard and a bunch of horny girls? School Days! Really though, the characters in this show were a little unrealistic on some standards. The one thing I don't like about the main character was that he was stupid and only cared for sex. I didn't mind the actions as much as what was backing up the act. As for the other two main characters one I felt constant pity towards while the other I thought just made the story more interesting. Now the rest of the supporting characters is where things start to get ridiculous. I kept thinking if schools were really like that then the population would double in a year.\n\n
Enjoyment:\n
I found this show very enjoyable to watch and thought it succeeded in making a sad and crazy anime. If your not into drama then I would strongly suggest watching something else because that's basically what this show is made of. If you like a show that doesn't hold back and gets really FUBAR at some points then this might be close. I thought it was a good show and would suggest watching it, so yeah...