We've all have known some tragic romance stories like "Romeo and Juliet" and "Jane Eyre" (although the later happens to a bit happier).  School Days is a harem anime based on a visual novel that have a lot of angst and an infamous and controversial brutal tragic ending.  I would need to say about the "brutal" part, the ending so brutal that it is even censored at Crunchyroll (and even when you have an account when you watch the last episode).
Now for the storyline, I personally enjoyed it due to a good mix of tragedy, comedy, and angst.  Like most harem orromance anime based out of visual novels, the series starts out comedic and light-hearted, but after a while, the story gets more dramatic and explores into more darker and serious themes (and in the case of School Days, it gets WAY darker to the point that the OP used in the series is highly ironic in the later episodes).  The story takes into the perspective of a high school student named Makoto Itou, who come across a young, beautiful, and cute girl named Kotonoha Katsura in the train station.  Makoto, when he first saw Kotonoha, was too shy to approach her, but he have feelings with Kotonoha.  When he heard about an urban legend about having a wallpaper of a person he admires in his cellphone and keep it without anyone noticing, he would end up with the person.  However, his classmate that he sits next to, Sekai Saionji, noticed this and thought that Makoto have a crush with Kotonoha.  Sekai then served as a "matchmaker"  and helped establish the relationship between Makoto and Kotonoha.  When Makoto asked Sekai what she can do to thank her, Sekai takes the first kiss.  From that point on, Makoto established more feelings towards Sekai, a love triangle is established, and there is a lot of angst, misunderstandings of each other, betrayal, and a LOT of sex (though not overly graphic).\n\n
School Days takes a different approach on the concept of harem.  We've all seem harem anime as like a dream come true for a young man.  However, School Days takes the reality of the harem concept and looks into what society reality thinks about a man getting into love relationships with multiple women.  In real life, the man's lover would probably be angry of her lover getting into relationships with other women.  In our current society, it is totally unacceptable for a man to get involve in multiple relationships.  Heck, even societies where polygamy is tolerated (or once tolerated) like Mormon and Islamic societies, they have strict standards about a man getting into relationships with multiple women and would probably find Makoto's womanizing and perverted behavior to be unacceptable.  School Days is basically the harem concept in the real world, and this is something that makes School Days a more enjoyable harem anime than Shuffle!.\n\n
Now the characters, I would need to put a slightly lower score here, because almost every single character had pretty much did some really stupid and idiotic moves.  I could best say that every character happens to be an idiot.  However, I wouldn't say that ALL the characters are complete morons or idiots, as there are some characters that I do feel sympathy to due to the hardships that endure.  For instance, I mostly feel pity towards Kotonoha for being ignored by Makoto over Sekai, and the fact that she is constantly bullied and teased by Otome and her friends.  But at the same time, I really see her as an idiot for not fully realizing what kind of a complete monster Makoto is and her total obsession with him throughout the series (and still constantly thinks Makoto still loves her in heart).  Not to mention what she did at the ending makes me want to puke at her at the same time what to hug her. \n\n
But perhaps the biggest idiot in the series happens to be Makoto Itou.  Now, when it comes the characters of harem anime, there are a lot of shipping wars between characters among fans and who is best for the man in the series (like what many people would do in the Shuffle! fanbase).  However, it is generally agreed upon all the fans that Makoto should not be paired with [I]anybody[/I].  In fact, he is the most hated character in the series (and even I hate his guts to the point that I was happy when he came to his tragic end).  And those who ship Makoto is completely missing the point.  And I can understand this from many fans.  For his behavior, Makoto didn't fully commit himself to one relationship.  He only cared about his sexual desires and when Kotonoha didn't fit his desires, he turned to Sekai to fullfill his desire.  He doesn't completely love his girlfriends, and he only cared about his own sexual desires, which is why he caught in the web of relationships later in the series.  He has no redeeming qualities that I felt that he deserves to be burned in hell for his actions.  On the flip side, he is, for some reason, establish some sort of Internet meme where he is refereed as "MANkoto" within Imageboards where his head is photoshopped into muscular and half-naked bodies.  Needless to say, while I personally find the meme to be really funny, I don't find Makoto's actions to be really "manly" at all.\n\n
Despite being a dub fan, this is one of the many series where I watched subbed-only because subbed is only option available online.  And it is one of the many sub-only series I've enjoyed (others being To Aru Majutsu no Index and Sketchbook ~full Color'S~).  The series is available at Crunchyroll legally and free to watch.  If you are looking for a harem anime with a lot of drama and angst with a slight comedy in it, this is something I would recommend.