whats up anime lovers,
        today i'm reviewing this awesome love story known as school days
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!this next paragraph is basically a spoiler but many parts are vague and nothing too good is spoiled so please read on!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Lets see what's really going on here, we start with your typical loser main character, you know a normal guy we can all relate to, staring at his love at first sight girl from afar. So far this has been your typical romance but woahoho whats this, a nosy girl gets involved and manages to hook these 2 love birds up, and bythe end of episode 1, kudos to you love doctor. Of course this is still pretty between the lines, the only odd thing is how fast the relationship is moving. So now these 2 are hooked up and poor little mokoto starts feeling different about his perfect, hot girlfriend, who clings to him because she's ostracized by her classmate (we all know girls like this...right). Now loverboy mokoto wants miss nosy and she agrees to cheat with him, eventually they do what comes naturally and she allows him to f**k her brains out on a dialy basis. Now you're feeling bad for his girlfriend but eventually you realize she's crazy around the time she offers him lemonade, she finds out he's cheating on her but she's still too insane to do anything. Mokoto continues to refuse to DTR but sekai a.k.a nosy still doesn't care. Eventually makoto see's her as a hassle and continues to cheat on her with girls that range from best friends to the most random girls that had anything to do with the story but you know highschool girls, all they wanna do is sleep around, i'm so glad they kept this realistic. So eventually sekai pisses mother nature off and doesn't recieve her gift and eventually we're left with 2 things, me at the last episode so pissed off at motoko I'm jumping up and down shouting seppuku, and what I consider one of the best endings for an anime ever, and i mean it, usually they suck, but not this time, oh and it was such a happy ending to, it really warmed my heart, but that I won't spoil for you.\n\n
The characters, lets see, motoko was an average guys who went crazy sex beast that only cares about himself, throughout the anime he was an ass and you'll never fail to hate him, every chance he is given he will always pick the path that'll piss you off and he'll even go out of his way to piss you off some more, of course I thought he was a great character for the anime because it's about time we see an average guy turned into an asshole instead of someone with this hidden potential, you were meant to hate him, deal with it, he isn't a real person and if you feel you're better than him then you need to stop comparing yourself to someone so low on the bar and start working at being a decent human. Let's look at kotonoha, which is easy considering she's hot as hell, but really she starts out an innocent person who's shy, hot, and doesn't fit in, completely realistic, throughout the story it is revealed that she is an insane person even before the cheating, another perfect character for the anime because she reminds us that there are people who can be crazy and you need to watch out for them, personally i cheered her on at the end. Every other girl in this story was completely unrealistic and dick hungry, even sekai, she was nothing more than the first girl he cheated with, some other special things happen with her but she's no different from the rest, they let mokoto have them and he moved on as soon as things were clearing up for them. \n\n
The animation was good. nicely done overall but i don't think you really care too much about that, as long as it isn't complete garbage you're fine, nothing mindblowing, it was a little choppy if you're looking for some criticism.\n\n
Now for music, let me tell you one thing, if all the making out scenes didn't give you a boner (or make you wet...ladies) then the music will, of course i'm bs-ing to get your attention, calm down and put it back in your pants, the music was fine, nothing worth noting, sorry if i got your hopes up or something.\n\n
overall the story was good but it's taxing on your mind to put up with all the drama and all that goes on in each episode. I'll give it a 10 because that ending was perfect and the story was an easy to make up drama that an h-anime writter could've come up with but we don't see it too much so thanks for not sticking me with another one of your linkin park anime's (named since alot of their song sound similar and all the anime in a genre follow a basic pattern). Now if you're still following this you should also read the manga because it is very different from the anime and will actually redeem motoko a little because he is more considerate of others feelings and the plot is a lot less slut heavy.\n\n
so long otaku, nerds (not a derogatory term in my book), asians, and those occasional beautiful people that like anime (not that you can't be more than one of these) thanks for reading, don't take me seriously, and if you message me make sure you at least add snowboarding in there somewhere...i love snowboarding.