Ok... Finally finished SAO, and this is an edited review.
Before I start this, people there will probably be many who may disagree, but also agree, but before that, I just got to say that this anime is probably one of the most spectacular anime I have seen in many months, or even year. Aside from that, there are people who hate this anime for whatever their reasons are, and those who love it and think this is a masterpiece. 
I believe that most people considered this an amazing anime, i wondered why at first but ever since i started the first episode, i just couldn'tstop until the latest episodes that had aired. (the anime club i'm in decided to watch this anime) i basically though this was like .Hack, but it was much better in every quality aspect (my opinion, you have the right to disagree.) everyone who likes games and Is an otaku Should, or maybe Need to watch this. Now what I'm going to review and write is my own opinion so... you know... :3\n\n
Story: 10\n
Even though i say this, i don't COMPLETELY think that it's the best in the world. In fact, I think that some part of the story of SAO is moving very fast, or even abrupt. The main reason why I said this (my grading) is because of my personal favorite genre. Adding action, game, romance, adventure, some  fantasy, but I kinda believe that someday in the future it maybe possible, and only Some slice of life to it. The timing is just right also. Instead of making us sit there and wasted like 30 eps so the main character could lv up, they just skip the little things and go to the main things, which keeps viewers, like me, excited and mostly on the climax. SAO is pretty easy to follow. It's not some sort of complex anime, like Durarara where you skip back and forth between the present and the past, and not really anything to think about, so the viewers who dislike using brain power probably will like this. So yea... that's why I rated SAO as 10 for the story. Not much side tracks so you should be able to enjoy it much much more than many others. I actually thought at first that SAO would probably be like other typical anime where it will get boring sooner or later as you continued to watch, but it's, in my opinion, the complete opposite. The genres, however, did slightly change. If I'm not mistaken on this one, I would say that the first arc had a slightly more action than the second arc, but the second have more romance and tears of joy instead of tears of depression and sadness. \n\n
Art: 9\n
Yea.... will people these days are pretty good, and better than in the past. They got more Waaalaaa to the art now, so i don't really think there's anything to say. One thing that really stands out are the emotion that the characters are giving in the anime. The face clearly expressed the situation and the motive they have. It has feeling that could be expressed without words, and that, for me, is really impressive. The movement, the face, the shadows etc. really fit in and there's pretty much nothing to complain about. I could be wrong, since the story pulls me in, and I don't have that much energy to pay attention much to the art. I gave SAO's art a 9 instead of a 10 is because sometime, I feel as if the characters expression are sometime over done, and can be seen with a little too much emotions. Just my opinion of course.\n\n
Sound: 10\n
I especially like this anime because the sounds are great to listen to, and it feels smooth, reeling me in more to the anime. The background fits in to the environment nicely, surrounding SAO and makes this anime more realistic and natural. What excites me the most is how they used the sounds, making the anime sounds much like you're watching a game, or better yet, making you feel as if you Are in it. \n\n
Character: 10\n
The characters are very nice. Not boring, not annoying or anything that just makes you wanna smash whatever is in front of your eye on to the little PC or device you're watching from. I experienced it before. Not sure if anyone of you guys have, but anyway... Since I now have completed SAO, I can see that the characters are the same whether they are in the game or in reality, and what that mean is, if Kirito is perfect then, he will always be perfect now, although that's a debatable matter. Romance anime have the type of crying that I would say are annoying, phony, and irritating to my ears. For SAO, I could really grab on to them and kind of interact with it, as in, the reasons of why they are crying the way they do or take hold of the situation and imagine f I was in their place, which really matches on how I would feel. This of course is based on who you are, and your personality. Those who just love seeing their friends, or just anyone close to they suffer or die would definitely disagree with me on this one. Romance anime usually have people crying about useless things, but SAO made a lot of senses in the timing of when the character should be happy, sad, angry, or derpy.\n\n
Enjoyment: 10\n
Nothing to say here, since I mostly put the enjoyment rating the same as the story. It's good to have something to enjoy, and I've been waiting so long for these kind of anime to come out. Although this anime has the time in the story where you Cannot help but tightens your fist as hard as you can, since the scene are unbearable to watch. YOU ALL KNOW WHAT I"M TALKING ABOUT. HOW DARE HE TOUCH, AND SNIFF ON HER EXCELLENCY?! \n\n
Overall: 10\n
I'm sure that not everyone will agree with me here, but at least everyone could agree with Some thing I typed down. I personally think that SAO is very emotional from the beginning to the end, and that is really just what I think. I've seen many who does not seem think that way. Well then... I would gladly say that this is one of my favorite anime. Of course there are others which I seem to enjoyed as equivalent as SAO. I hope this help anyone who are planing to watch this someday.