SAO is one of the most talked about animes this year. It gets hype, it gets love, it gets hate. It has its upsides, but it has its downsides too. Don't come to Sword Art Online expecting deep meanings and though provoking arcs, its an anime that you can very easily watch with your brain turned off. And there is nothing wrong with that if you come to the table expecting as such. Not every anime has to be some deep, philosophical master piece. 
Story(5): Again, the story doesn't provoke much thought. It opens quite well, and the time skips were rather well played inmy opinion. While Kirito was alone, all he did was focus on getting stronger. You don't need a weekly update on his progress with that. The side stories were a bit rushed, and seemed completely irrelevant. After helping these women (who's names I can no longer remember), he simply went on and never talked to them again. From what I can pick up, Kirito doesn't interact with a whole lot of people on a personal scale. It surprises me that he never got mail from them or things of that nature. The story really only makes any sense halfway through the Aincrad arc.\n\n
Art(9): Being set in a video game wonderland, the artists were set free to draw big, flowery landscapes and ye olde towns under a big blue sky. Being able to ignore the laws of physics also made for a few well drawn backgrounds, such as numerous floating islands. It's an artists wet dream.\n\n
Sound(8): Personally, I never picked up on any repetition or stale music. It was either so underwhelming, or the tracks they used match the situations almost perfectly. (I'm siding with the latter of the two.) The detail of the sound work, from the player's menus to sword clanging to the rumble of bosses was great in my opinion.\n\n
Character(6): I can't lie, my tsundere sense was tingling about 6 or so episodes in. The reason my character score isn't lower is that I'm a sucker for character development, no matter how stereotypical or expected. You have the quiet, confident guy and the harsh, tooseriousforyou girl, do the math.\n\n
Enjoyment(9): Simply watching the anime the first time through, I was watching my clock every week for the next release. I couldn't wait. Regardless of how lackluster or ill thought out things may have been, I enjoyed the anime, and in the end that's all that matters. Reading other reviews I do see some flaws, but they don't affect how much I liked SAO. If you enjoy video games, and you enjoy anime, you WILL enjoy SAO, it's almost guaranteed. But just to reiterate, don't expect a masterpiece of plot and story. You kinda need to just blindly enjoy it for what you see.\n\n
Overall(8): It isn't the best anime ever, but it is by no means the worst. The action scenes were well played out, the art was amazing, the sound matched perfectly. The story and characters are a little bland, but that is the case for many animes. My overall score is 8 because my enjoyment score was 9. Regardless of any flaws anything has, and this goes for the entirety of life, if you enjoyed it, it was worth it. And being an avid video game player and anime watcher, this seemed like a great anime for me, and it was.