Sword Art Online, one of the most controversial anime ever. Where to begin? For starters, I think Sword Art Online is extremely good. The first half was meaningful. Most of everyone's gripe is the serious tone of trapped in a death game was decreased by romance. But I think the image is too confused with Attack on Titan which was entirely on survival. Sword Art Online is really a MMO cover, but more a romance and action series. 
That said, here is where everyone is divided. Those who think Kirito is really cool and the people that think cause he's so cool, he has nodevelopment. Both are true actually, so we're forever gonna have two sets of opinions. I'm no rookie gamer, I know it takes a lot of effort to get through a game. That said, I don't agree when people say Kirito is overpowered and always wins easily. I mean he did start off stronger than others cause he was a beta tester, but that don't make him God either, outside the plot holes. Kirito shows strength to conquer and overcome obstacles represented by the flashy attacks everyone thinks is just for show off. And so we have the legendary fights with the legendary OST by Yuki Kajiura. And I do recall that he lost before. \n\n
Now onto Asuna, she was depicted as a badass at the start and suddenly turned romance with Kirito. Well it's not so sudden, let me explain the transformation. Remember Asuna is still a girl and girls like good looking guys with a good heart. The critical moment that happened which Kirito did to officially capture Asuna's heart was fighting for her hand so she could leave the guild. It's like Kirito gave Asuna her proposal of love. It was the knight's promise that I WOULD PROTECT YOU! That would move even me! And after some solo time together, a beautiful love life develops, lovers inseparable.\n\n
The side stories in the first arc, many people consider to be unnecessary. But without the side stories, we would never get the chance to explore the world of Sword Art Online. And it gives Kirito the chance to meet other players and befriend them. There is a big misconception here. No after awhile they are not forgotten, they just don't meet. I have played MMOs before and the only time you would constantly be with another player is if you are playing in parties. Otherwise, it is good game, we'll meet again. \n\n
Alright now to the second half, this arc is harder to explain it's good cause the negative feelings come from the fact that it has lost the original premise of trapped in a death game. Rather, we are replaced with a save the damsel in distress story in a sillier elf setting. I would agree the first half was more exciting, but let's not eliminate the second half just yet. The story may have drastically changed, but our characters are still our characters. This arc is the TEST OF WILLPOWER! How strong our love and bonds hold despite torn apart. And with a mentally retarded horndog villain Sugou on our heads.\n\n
This is going to be really hard for some of you, but you're just going to have to accept the fact there's incest. I mean, if it happens it can't be helped right? I think Kirito handled it pretty well. He got another respect point from me. And the fanservice really doubled compared to the first half. Is that a bad thing? Maybe and maybe not. Maybe because it can be viewed as insulting to particularly Asuna, and maybe not because it fits Sugou's role and personally I thought the fanservice was hot as fuck. Don't worry readers, Kirito will once again venture out in this new world to rescue Asuna, just like how he's always been there for her.\n\n
In conclusion, I have really enjoyed Sword Art Online and hope you do too. There are various opinions out there, but I advise you to watch and form your own. Please give my review a fair evaluation. I'm counting on you.\n