I was really looking forward to watch Sword Art, i'm a videogame lover so i was sure that i'd like it. And yeah i liked it, but it wasn't perfect, it has so many flaws that i'll explain later, otherwise it was a good anime series, i think you guys will enjoy it (And i really don't get why there are so many haters, I mean this was a good one, it doesn't deserve so much hate LOL....)
Anyway i'll start with my review now (And please understand that this is my very first review so it might not be very good... D:) (there will beMINOR SPOILERS if you keep reading, be aware of that)\n\n
Story 7 - The idea is so original, well i've heard that the anime/game Hack had a similar plot, but still i found it a refreshing and new idea, and as i cleared before i'm also a videogame lover so i found it even more interesting, who wouldn't wish for a virtual reality game, i'd LOVE to get one, for real... \n
Even though i liked the idea the way it was portrayed wasn't that good, it had so many flaws as i commented before. Specially after the SAO arc, i didn't really like LAO as much as the previous arc, what i disliked the most about it is how they brought out this new arc, that sudden ending (ep 15) how they made SAO disappear, it was TOO sudden. I was enjoying so much how they were going through all the floors beating all those powerful final bosses, but that ep 15 was so rushed. I'd have enjoyed the show so much more if the SAO arc were longer... The arc was nice i liked the fights and the relationship that Asuna and Kirito had (I agree that their relationship developed a bit fast, but i still enjoyed it), even though the first 4 eps were a bit confusing, you don't really know where the show is going. Now i found LAO a bit hummm not disappointing, but yeah i found it less interesting than the SAO arc, specially at the beginning of the arc, the last 4 episodes were really good, they kept me hooked up till the end of the series, the fights were pretty well portrayed. I ended up enjoying this arc as well.\n\n
Art 9 - It's one of the strong points of this anime, the animation is so good, i love how the fights were portrayed, and the characters are so well drawn.\n\n
Sound 8 - The soundtracks of this anime are pretty good, i enjoyed all the OPs and EDs plus the background music as well.\n\n
Character 8 - I liked most of them, specially the main leads of this series Asuna and Kirito, i liked the fact that they both are strong, not the typical strong - weak pairing, if you guys get what i mean... the rest of the characters were ok... I didn't really get attached with them but Yui... i really liked her. One of the things that i didn't like of this series is the "harem" thing. I know that the one that Kirito loves stays the same, but it's a fact that almost all the girls that appear in the series fall in love with him. (I don't like this because i'm not a harem lover)\n\n
Enjoyment 9 - I enjoyed this anime, it kept me hooked up till the end, there were better episodes and worse ones but it's definitely worth to watch. Of course it's only my opinion. \n\n
Overall 8 - I pointed out good points and bad about this anime but i liked it in general and it kept me hooked up till the last episode.\n
It's true that there are better animes out there, but i would recommend you guys to watch it, give it a shot specially if you're videogames lover just like me you will enjoy it.