Sword Art Online, otherwise known as SAO, has become the subject of much criticism and praise this summer. Starting as a popular light novel written by Reki Kawahara and later being adapted into three manga, a game, and an anime- SAO has become immensely popular. After seeing several reviews for this anime, I decided to give it a try. Who hasn't wanted to escape from reality every once in a while? Why most of read books/play video games/watch anime is because we want to "escape to another world." However cliche the idea, Reki Kawahara handled it nicely. With interesting characters and the idea of actuallife or death hanging in the balance, SAO is not your average cliche. A lot of times when futuristic or technological anime pop up, you're going to find a lot of loopholes. Hell, even more than loopholes, the story just won't make sense. You'll think the story was written by someone with no technological knowledge at all. It makes me wonder, "Why are you even in this genre?" Thankfully, that's not the case here. The idea of nerve gear and the whole beta-tester idea was very well thought out. I was constantly thinking I found a flaw in the story when they would point out, for instance, "Oh, the nerve gear has a built in battery pack, so you can't just unplug it."\n\n
SAO is an entertaining anime that I look forward to every week. Sure, it's no masterpiece (yet), but a large variety of people are going to find that SAO is worth my praise. Having only seen 5 episodes so far, I can't yet give you a 100% accurate review. From the 5 episodes I've seen: The art's great. The sound is nice. The characters are interesting, and it's very enjoyable. So far  the story seems a little bit rushed, almost leaving you in a daze, but I think he could do amazing things with SAO in the future.\n\n
If you're looking for a nice, fun anime, SAO will most likely satisfy your needs. Even if you're not looking for a nice, fun anime, SAO also has it's deep moments. Because of this fun story filled with deep moments, SAO will appeal to a large variety of audiences. Whether your a comedy, romance, action or thriller lover, Sword Art Online is an anime that nearly everyone can enjoy.