Boruto: Naruto Next Generations follows the Naruto series much like one generation follows the next; the series and it's elements have been passed like a torch to the children of the series. 
The opening statement for this review should be that the main audience this show is meant to appeal to is not the prior Naruto audience. This anime has tasked itself with appealing to two different audiences; the prior generation whom followed Naruto Uzumaki and the current generation who will now be following our new protagonist Boruto Uzumaki. 
Boruto Uzumaki is a solemnly different character than Naruto was; he's spoiled both in the senseof material wealth and in his ease of acceptance by the village. He does not bear the same burdens that Naruto did as a child, and for this reason he has troubles with entitlement and acting, for lack of better phrasing, "bratty." But, with this said I do not think the show lacks in proper characterization or character development. Boruto is a child, and he acts as such. He lives in a modernized version of the ninja world; one where there's abundant peace, computers, video games, and a lessening need for the occupation of ninja. Boruto (at this present point in the series) does not know struggle; what he does know is that his father's work is keeping his father away from him, and having shared happy experiences with Naruto prior to his inauguration as Hokage he is bothered by this fact. \n\n
Boruto acts very much as a child would in this situation. He meddles, and causes trouble; but still bears many of the same traits as Naruto (being someone who is there to help others). He's simply living a different young life than Naruto; and for this reason expresses the same traits Naruto did at a young age but for different reasons. In other words he acts up due to lack of attention from his father; rather than a lack of attention from the village.\n\n
What makes this show interesting to watch is this very characterization. It gives a chance to those of us who have followed Naruto through his journey to see how his child acts; whom knows little of his journey because he was not there himself. It gives us a chance to see how these new ninja students live in a modernized world that's in a state of peace. It allows us to again watch Boruto grow and change; much like Naruto did, but with a different start and a different end. \n\n
Boruto is meant to appeal to the new generation; someone they can follow and admire. The current generation likely does not know of Naruto's accomplishments or has not followed the series, and so they can echo the sentiments of Boruto - they don't know the story. This anime gives both the prior viewers a chance to follow Naruto as he learns to be a father and Hokage; but also serves the purpose of showing the current viewers Boruto's journey - which will likely contain the same character development Naruto did.\n\n
Having been a heavy advocate of the Naruto series, and having watched the entirety of it; I enjoy Boruto. I fully recognize that Boruto is not a show made for me, but rather for the kids of the current generation. I think the characterization of the children is done well, and they bear enough resemblance to their parents whilst expressing unique traits from their different lifestyle growing up that it makes sense. I'm interested to see the series progress with a mix of enjoying the company of my own hero, Naruto; and seeing how the new children develop into fine ninja as well. \n\n
Boruto is a follow-up to the Naruto series that I can advocate. It knocks at modernism as we see skyscrapers accrue, to-be ninja playing game consoles, and clothes which were prior tattered and torn after training (such as those worn by ninja students) looking pristine and clean. It gives us a chance to follow another story of growth, hardship, and much more; and for that I'm excited. It's the next generation of Naruto, and I'm looking forward to seeing where we are headed.