I don't ever write reviews but I've absolutely had enough of people slandering the Boruto series for silly things such as slow pace, lack of character depth/originality, lack of humor etc. Those of you who expect Boruto to start of with a massive bang have no idea what the Naruto series was about! IT TOOK 720 EPISODES for Naruto to completely finish and some people haven't even watched up to episode 30 to make a judgement on the entire show. The most beautiful thing about Naruto was embarking on a journey following Naruto from the lonely trouble making weakling to becoming the savior of theentire world; he didn't start of as this badass that had complete control of Kurama and was bros with Hagoromo,no he had to start from the bottom. If your looking for a slow but detailed, heart warming yet mind blowing which explores the NEW world of Shinobi then you've found your show.\n\n
Characters- Although the characters do mostly take after their parents you can tell there are differences between each one. New characters such as Sumire who had little to no link to Naruto comes into the mix with a good story behind her and her inner battle of who she should be. The one that caught my eye the most was Sarada, her demeanor towards her father and her what drives her to be the Hokage. Just so you know there's quite a bit of rebelling.\n\n
Art- The art has stepped up quite a bit and you can see some differences in the fight scenes (Sakura vs Shin 0_0). Don't know to much about this so I'll leave it there.\n\n
Story- Up to ep 50 I can understand why people were annoyed because of the slow pace and lack of relevance to the main plot BUT its important to understand the foundation before exploring the concepts and detailed storytelling. After ep 50 it get back and track and the next few episodes will be action packed and will focus on Boruto the love hate relationship between him and his father and reasons for his attitude/actions.\n\n
Enjoyment- So far it's quite light hearted, a bit of action here and there, quite a few good stories that will make you eager to watch the next episode. It's nice to see some of the old characters come into the mix sometimes but I get really excited to see how the new characters will develop like Boruto and what the meaning behind his eye is as well as who Gaara's son is and just how powerful he really is.\n\n
Overall I give it a 8/10 and I urge everyone to be patient with Boruto and try to understand him for the young kid he is, for now.