Story:
"Sword Art Online" or SAO takes our younger generation's fantasy into reality. A virtual reality world. One filled with excitement, beauty, and opportunities to always get stronger. An MMORPG that's more real than reality.
If you play games at all, you'll probably feel an attachment right off the first episode. That dream where you sometimes wish you could've been in another world as we..
The story gets a 10 from me, I hope the story progresses in the same way as episode 1.  Being attached to a show is important to enjoy it, and I think this story does it exceptionally well.
Art:
The art is beautiful, similarto many other animes made with today's technology. The virtual world seems alive with the beautiful art and I can't ask for more.\n\n
Sound:\n
Both OP and ED was engaging and done beautifully.\n\n
Character:\n
Our protagonist Kirito seems to be a skilled gamer in SAO because he has experience in the beta version of it. Kirito has a bit of an introvert personality, and seems to be an addicted gamer who has passion to finish this game. He loved SAO beta, and wants to grow in SAO live as well. He seems to have some reason to dislike reality, or at the very least enjoys virtual reality more. He makes a statement that he feels more alive in SAO than real life.\n\n
He meets a good nooby friend Cline right at the first episode, and instead of pushing noobs away like most people would he decided to help him out. Kirito shows an introverted personality whenever Cline talks about meeting up with his other friends, but Kirito also shows compassion for Cline when things get bad.\n\n
I believe Kirito will show growth in SAO, and I'm sure we'll see the reason behind some of his characteristics soon. In just the first episode it was revealed he's a strong person. Not many people can be calm after facing a life and death reality. Asuna hasn't made an appearance yet, we'll see how she is in the next episode!\n\n
Enjoyment:\n
Loved the first episode, and hope it continues this way! What I'm scared of the most is a crappy ending. Not every1 probably feels the same way as me in this aspect but if the anime catches up to the novel (which I have not read) I rather they use fillers and such or slow it down than to put a bad ending in.\n\n
Overall:\n
As a person who plays a lot of games, SAO has been one of the first animes to make me come in and write a review on. This is because I've been waiting for an anime with a plot like this that doesn't disappoint (.Hack XD) and I hope it continues this way!