There is one major issue with literally every negative review of this anime, and I feel that it is not only unfair, it is completely unbiased and ridiculous. All of them compare it to Naruto, but only at a very surface level, failing to actually realize the major differences that differentiate it from the original, rather than making it worse. Many people have tried to suggest that Boruto is literally just a worse version of Naruto, that Sarada is just an uninventive character and that it is generally just Naruto 2.failure, however this is blatantly untrue. While it is easy to see the similarities betweenthe characters and their parents, and compare them to the mature versions of their parents (especially Boruto given the striking resemblance to his father), this is remarkably unjustified, given the difference in age between them and their parents in Shippūden (which seems to be the version of their parents everyone compares them to). Rather, if they are to be compared to their parents, compare them to their parents when they were the same age. \n\n
Naruto vs Boruto:\n\n
People seem to forget just how obnoxious Naruto is at the beginning of the series. He is every bit as attention-seeking as Boruto, and whats more, hes stupid and beyond immature, even for his age. Boruto, though clearly more privileged than his father at the same age, which many people try to use against him, is also much more understanding of the world in which he lives. He is much smarter than Naruto, and consequently more introspective, however it also causes him to be far more brooding. His witty remarks and cutting sarcasm demonstrate this. This also could be seen as a trait inherited from his mother, in a way, as she is much more introspective than his father. Boruto simply developed it differently than his mother simply due to his being a different person living under different circumstances. \n\n
This isn’t to say that Boruto is just a better Naruto. Rather, each has their own weaknesses and strengths that shape them individually. Where Boruto has greater natural intellect, Naruto has a generally more optimistic outlook on the world and a better understanding of human nature. Conversely, as per their weaknesses, where Boruto is angsty and sarcastic, Naruto is naïve and immature and dumb. Their greatest similarities, barring physical appearance and abilities, are their mutual desire for attention and acceptance, and their arrogant perception of their own abilities (referring to a younger Naruto, of course). \n\n
Sarada vs Sakura/Sasuke:\n\n
Sarada is an interesting character, because despite not being raised by her father, she is actually quite like him. Or rather, she is quite like the younger version of him we see in flashbacks, from before the Uchiha’s downfall. She is bright-eyed and intelligent, and is really quite a genius. She doesn’t seem to have quite the same level of raw power as her father (understandably), however she is undoubtedly every bit as good at spacing effectively and reading the flow of the battle, if not better. \n\n
What makes Sarada really an interesting character is the similarities and differences that can be drawn between her and her mother. Personality wise, she is probably more like her dad- at least outwardly. Like Boruto, she is perhaps more mature than her mother was at her age, however her irritation, especially at the beginning, due to Boruto’s antics is markedly similar to her mother. It could be argued that she is like a less angsty (again, understandably so) version of her father, but with her mother’s temperament. She has not yet shown her mother’s natural affinity for healing jutsu, or her remarkable raw strength, however I wouldnt be surprised if these come into play more as the series progresses. \n\n
Mitsuki\n\n
Not really comparing him to Orochimaru, as that’s really impossible. Rather, I just want to say that to all you haters, Mitsuki is an absolutely awesome character. Trying to say that the show completely copies Naruto is completely disregarding Mitsuki from the equation. And yes, I know that he could in some ways be potentially compared to Sasuke (I won’t explain why, for those of you who haven’t watched it (also, if you’ve watched part of the series and don’t know what I’m talking about, keep going and it’ll eventually make sense)), however his personality is so distinct from anything ever seen in the show that any comparison to a former character really does him an injustice. The closest comparison that can be made is probably to Sai, personality-wise, however even this isn’t exactly accurate. He is so surrounded by enigma, yet at the same time so open with his thoughts, that you can’t help but wonder whats up with that kid. He is weird beyond comprehension and that is PERFECT given his strange “upbringing.” But enough about Mitsuki.\n\n
As for the rest of the cast, the supporting characters are all wonderfully written, both in their similarities to their parents, as well as their differences. Cho-cho is one of my favorites, though I will admit that her parents relationship kinda seemed, well, shoehorned in, I guess. Inojin and Shikadai are also honorable mentions. Inojin inherited his mom’s cutting wit and his dad’s brutal honesty (obviously his dad isn’t always honest, esp. at the beginning, but you get the point). Shikadai on the other hand, is really just like his dad in almost every way. Normally I’d say this is a cop out, but Shikaku was the same as well, and the relationship between both Shikamaru and Shikadai and their respective fathers are so healthy and provide such a nice break from the intensity of the whole show that I can’t complain. \n\n
Now, all this considered, while I really have throroughly enjoyed Boruto, it is not without its flaws. One thing that I have to acknowledge that plenty of people have brought up is the ridiculousness of Boruto & Co. taking on Jounin level nin. I agree that it seems a little absurd, however at the same time, the creators are really kind of stuck, as far as that goes. They created Naruto, and by the end he was literally fighting beings with godly powers. To scale things all the way down to Genin beating the tar out of each other in Boruto would have felt really underwhelming, as we’ve seen what is possible in the world of Naruto. \n\n
A few other problems stem from, in my opinion, the underuse of some really awesome characters. Iwabee in particular stands out, for obvious reasons, however I really feel Denki has a lot to add to the story, even though hes honestly an absolute wuss. The creators started to go into his character, then seemingly just like, tossed him aside, not even taking the time to explain exactly who his dad was, other than that he is really rich. By this point in the series, the only relevant characters are Boruto, Sarada, Mitsuki, and team Ino-Shika-Cho. \n\n
As per the issues with Naruto only doing paperwork, I get why this bothers people, however you have to also understand that He is a man of Sec. of Def.-level importance, if not moreso. He lives in a world every bit as complicated as our own. It stands to reason that he’d have tons of paperwork to do. I do have my own issues with him, but that mostly stems from him skipping Hima’s B-Day.  He broke a promise, which is not like Naruto at all. \n\n
If you’re going to watch this show, I highly recommend doing so with these things in mind. Furthermore, for those of you who already watched some of it, I would consider giving a second chance, again keeping all this in mind. Remember that Boruto has his flaws, however that gives him an opportunity to grow. It wouldnt be fun if Naruto could go Sage Mode from the beginning of the show- Boruto has to be viewed similarly if one is to enjoy it. If you dont view it in this way (or anything else for that matter), theres no way you can enjoy it cause youll never be satisfied. \n\n
Anyways, if you guys agree- vote this up. I really love this show, and I want to make sure everyone who considers watching it does so with the right mindset.