Cough. 
First of all. After first few episodes I had same view on Boruto (anime) as many people that are writing reviews here. 
BUT!
-Boruto was bad anime at the start... why? That knows everyone, boring episodes, with very slow character development and almost no action.... but here you are, Naruto's first episodes were almostly same. Difference between Boruto's and Naruto's first episodes is that Naruto was relatively dark anime from the start. Boruto is just starting to get dark.
And that's it. After arc about Sarad, I got more interested in this anime... few episodes after you get school trip arc, which wasnt anything excelentbut it also want that bad, which made me little bit more interested in this anime ... and I can say that last 10 episodes were really, REALLY GOOD.  Action was great, story is now really interesting and char. development is really good. Now, Iam writing this review after watching episode 42, and I can say that Iam so hyped for another episode.. actually thats one of the reasons why Iam writing this review :D.\n\n
Now I want say something about main characters - Boruto\n
Many people are hating Boruto so much. But actually I dont get why.. he is really rare type of main character in shounen anime... I would even say that this type of character I saw maybe once or twice in shounen anime... He is arrogant, but he is caring about his family and friends, he might look stupid, but he is really inteligent. Also he have really dark and interesting future and he have mysterious powers hidden in him which makes him character with big potential.\n
Now lets get to Sarada and Mitsuki, these 2 characters are pretty popular among viewers, Sarada is badass Sarkura and she wants to be Hokage, while Mitsuki is ˝child˝ of Orochimaru and he is more likely observing Boruto to learn whats life is.. etc. ( I dont want to spoil his past, so I won't tell anymore about him :P)\n
Also story is little similar with Naruto, especially from the start, but how you get further, story is more and more different from that one in Naruto and Naruto Shippuden.\n\n
Aaand Thats it. I recommend this series, you will get really enjoyable anime after few worse episodes :) \n\n
Episodes: 1-20 I would rate 6/10 \n
Episodes 20-34 I would rate 7/10\n
Episodes 34-42+ I would rate 8/10. \n\n
You can expect many fights, various and uniqe characters and nice story.\n
Art, animation and sounds/music are also good.\n\n