Boruto is a sequel to the Naruto series that focuses on the main Naruto Character's kids becoming Ninja. The main flaw with the series are the viewers themselves. The lead character is Boruto, yet many viewers watch under the impression that Naruto's group will be the main focus. The other problem is people compare it to Shippuden which is unfair to the series itself.
Boruto is much like the original Naruto series except Boruto is much more skilled than Naruto was at his age, doesnt have the tailed Beast inside him and less than half the Filler, maybe even 75% less filler. Much like the originalNaruto series it focuses on the kid's growth into Ninjas. They start off exactly as Naruto's class did working to become Genin at the academy. The series stars our Naruto favourites like Sasuke, Naruto, Sakura ect all in positions like Iruke, 3rd Hokage ect. They are around but the story doesnt focus on them. \n\n
The story is pretty good itself though like most series, the show focuses on character introductions to start but evolves showing more and getting into the bigger plot. The story is a huge improvement to start given Boruto isnt a whiny brat that cant do anything but talks big. Boruto has some daddy issues and is a prankster much like his father was but he is much stronger in all manners and all the characters are strong as well. There are no pre-Tsunade Sakura's. \n\n
Character wise I like it a lot more than Naruto. There are some interesting couples that have kids. It is fun to see them have some similar personality traits as their parents. It is also fun to see them in a whole new light, like Metal Lee who is son of Rock Lee has stage fright and cant preform as a ninja when people are watching him or Cho-cho who is Choji's daughter thinks ever guy is into her.\n\n
Overall it is a very good show but you are going to be disappointed if you are going to compare it to Naruto Shippuden where Naruto was a badass with all these cool moves. The show itself is more like Naruto where they are small kids starting out and growing into the kind of characters seen in the Shippuden series.