7/10 So far i like the story line, to me it's like Naruto. They both had no real clear cut plot, just a lot of mini one put in a big story line till the bad guys came. Its like life, not knowing what going happen till it does. I also know that some people won't like it because it like Naruto is starting all over again just with different name and problems. But to me that is what makes life. It just make me think that yes they took down an evil force but that doesn't mean that something else is going tohappen and i feel like that is what they are trying for in this part of the anime. Yes the story starts slow but then again it dose you get info in the first 10 episodes that seem like it going to be important, but they don't give everything away right a way. Which makes things more interesting. You don't know what is going to happen so you can't say you know how it will end. A lot of other anime's you can mostly tell how thing end and it stay way to much on point that it annoys me.yes over 10 episodes for a filler is long but fillers are needed to balance the show out. So i hope this don't have long fillers  \n\n
7/10 The art is good, it has the more softer feel to it that the last episodes of Naruto Shippuuden had. It just take some getting use to the fact that the Naruto main cast are in their 30s, so yes they will look different. Yes the new main cast look the same or close but i like that because that just shows who kid they are. It would be odd if they change the art style to make the kids look different.\n\n
7/10 I don't get why they ask about the sound. But it sound just fine to me. Yes they made the old main cast voice change. they are no longer 17 anymore.\n\n
7/10 The Characters might look the same(like i said why would you make look just much different) But they have different problems. You have Boruto, who is a teen boy who has to deal with being the war hero/Seventh Hokage son, Why would anyone think that is easy.He Also has to deal with a mystery power that no one really notices but is friends, on top of that his family life. Then you have Sarada, a teen girl who just like Boruto has to deal with family issues and being an Uchiha. Mitsuki remind me of Sai in the less feeling department even though he is Orochimaru son. the one i think that is the most funniest is Shikadai, he not only looks like Shikamaru but has the attitude down to. Then the other kids and their personality which yes has both parents but into one but that not surprising. The main cast dose act the same as the first two but they are as unaware as they use to be.\n\n
7/10 I enjoy this anime as much as i do the first two and i can't wait to see what happens to the new cast. like i just hope the creators do not rush this because people can't relax and enjoy a show that last longer then 24 episodes. I also hope they don't leave things hanging like a lot of the anime's