Okay so let me start with the story first. The story becomes interesting at some points but becomes boring at some points too. I think this is one of the reasons why some people drop this anime. And to remind you guys, this is a sequel of the naruto series and if you judge this anime without even watching the previous versions, then you have no right to do so. This story revolves around the evolution of the naruto universe and the continuation of it. So I think it is a minimum requirement to have an adept understanding on the Naruto universe first before jumpingin to this anime. And speaking of story and Naruto, THE FILLERS. Now, now don't feel so depressed. As far as I know, the filler percentage of this show has a lower filler percentage than his parent anime's filler percentage.\n\n
Now let us talk about the art. Now the art looks so modern given that the time in the anime is now modern. I just feel that the anime needs a darker pallete because it looks so vanill-ish. Animation quality is average on normal episodes but the quality becomes so beautiful and meticulous when it comes to important fight scenes ex: Momoshiki vs boruto fight.\n\n
Now for the sound. We all now are familiar with the naruto jutsu sounds so it's not a new thing but it's still a good thing they haven't changed the audio that much. The japanese dubbing of it is good too, no complaints here. You could tell that it was done by a respectable anime studio.\n\n
Now for the characters. We all saw boruto in the future fighting kawaki. Boruto was in his best attitude in character there. But when they turned back as a kid, Boruto was a very bad character for a shonen protagonist. I think the author wants to try a new twist by making the character grow from a bad kid to becoming a respectable ninja. Now for the other characters, they are so good, and it seems like all of them are overpowered. Let's see how they continue the story with these kind of characters running around.\n\n
Now since the episode one of this anime, I was satisfied and I enjoyed a lot watching the series. And of course until now, I am still enjoying the series very much.\n\n
That's all for my review. I hope you find this helpful.\n