As someone who quit watching anime after Guilty Crown finished airing. which would be beginning of 2012 and now suddenly started binging Boruto so that I could see what they did with the new generation. I see a lot of negative reviews on here and I feel like I should put in my two cents.
The premise is that the best shinobi in the world defeated the biggest evil out there and restored peace for the first time in most likely centuries. They show exactly what peace would be like, since the need for shinobi isn't as high as it has been for many generations andeveryone feels safe people feel like doing different things. The main conflict of the story isn't the lack of shinobi, it's what it means for newer generations who never experienced war. At the same time they also tie in aspects of the modern world like we know it. We see trains in the first episode and now they all have a phone line at home to keep in contact. I think that was a genius idea and they balanced it excellently. \n\n
To everyone saying the first 40 to 50 episodes are plain fillers: You're wrong and here's why. Boruto isn't an anime that's meant to be watched separately from Naruto, it's for the people who want to know what our hero's would do after there is nothing heroic to do anymore. Because guess what? Life goes on after that too. Also, the original Naruto series was centered around 1 protagonist and his teammates, everyone else was just there for plot purposes. They were also people that Naruto met for the first time at the same time the viewer did. But because this franchise is so big now they have to include them all almost equally. I mean come on, who hasn't wondered about TenTen whereabouts once we had seen everyone but her? That would've happened to half of the cast if they didn't include it. To make it realistically they decided to show of each child what their relationship with their parent is like. Since the original series mostly had orphans that should actually be exciting to the viewer. \n\n
It's also worth noting that they decided to make the characters younger at the starting point than the original series. They started at the academy, while the original series started around the Genin exams. Which was the perfect opportunity to introduce the characters, their personalities, how they think and how our old hero's are doing as parents. Even the fillers between the arcs are a necessary evil, they humanize the characters and even in those you deal with the underlying personal conflicts they have at home and show character development over time. \n\n
I am a bit disappointed with how the design of the new generation was decided. Most of them are exact copies of their parents, just one or two who look exactly alike is one thing, but the only ones who look different/mixed between both parents are Inojin, Cho-Cho and Sarada. Also, why do they barely have any siblings? Siblings could've added a great layer of personality development and also a way to give them more distinct motives. I think it's really a lack of creativity on that area, I've seen fanfiction OCs that are more creative and realistic than how they are presented to us. \n\n
You can tell by the arcs that they are very adventurous in how they approach this storyline and that we, after 100 episodes still have no clue what the opening scene of episode 1 is about. This indicates that they are expecting to take their time creating this anime. As the opening scene showed our protagonist Boruto as an adult and throughout the series he's still a child, starting as a academy student and soon-to-be Genin. You'll need to be patient and love the overal world that Kishimoto has created to really enjoy this long, long ride.\n