I want to start off this review by saying that I really hated the series Naruto for a while, the reason being that it seemed bland and unoriginal. This was back before I had really gotten into anime, and I hadn't given the series a fair chance given to what other people had told me, and I was only a few eps in. I don't know if anyone else felt this way, but I really hated those first few episodes--the main characters were one-noted and stereotypical, the plot seemed like it had potential but was not carrying it out well, etc. etc. etc. I'm suremany of you felt this way until the story ACTUALLY started picking up--that's certainly when I got started actually liking the series.\n
I think Boruto is going to be very similar in that way, and here's why:\n\n
STORY 6/10\n\n
As of right now, the story is mediocre and quite slice-of-life--one could describe it as filler. If you do a bit of research, however, this beginning of the series is really just intended to introduce you to the characters and get you a bit attached, and it's doing this very well in my opinion. The main story is actually supposed to start after Boruto and co. do their Chunin exams, (aka right after the movie) so that means that the anime actually CAN'T really do anything with the story right now in order to not mess with the future, actual story.\n
On the other hand, I can see why people are mad about the story as of now. Although it's rather nice and easy to watch, at some parts it seems a little pointless and you kind of ask yourself "why am I even watching this?" This is, once again, because the main story CAN'T start right now because they're letting the manga get ahead. Of course, the other option to let the manga get ahead would be to wait a year or so and then start airing episodes with actual content that people wouldn't immediately dismiss. That's what I would've preferred, which is why the story gets a solid 6.\n\n
ANIMATION/ARTWORK 7/10\n\n
I have a bit of a beef with the artwork, to be quite frank. I absolutely love some of the lighting and animation sequences that are used at certain moments, but the character design is a bit sad. All the kids look like just a combination of their parents' hair, eyes, and faces (Shikadai is honestly just Shikamaru with Temari's eyes). And some of the adults don't look too great either--every time Naruto comes on screen and he's far away I immediately cringe just because his iris usually takes up his ENTIRE EYE for some reason. Other than those little things, though, I really like the atmosphere the artists created with the new Hidden Leaf Village and the future places that Boruto and Co. go on as the story progresses. Plus, the characters have been beginning to look slightly less creepy when they're farther away in a scene, as the animators may have figured out what was wrong. But only slightly.\n\n
Sound 8/10\n\n
Can't really say much about this category, because it's pretty straightforward. The EDs and OPs have been pretty good so far, and the mixture of old instruments from the Naruto series and new orchestral stuff for Boruto was a great choice by the music producers. The voice acting is also pretty good too, although Boruto and Cho Cho's voice sometimes get on my nerves (I had the same problem for Naruto and Choji in the beginning of Naruto, though, so I guess it runs in the family :P) Overall, they've done some good things with the sound and I can't wait to hear more.\n\n
CHARACTER 5/10\n\n
So far, characters have been a little bland, to be quite honest. All the characters seem to be pretty one-note and stereotypical, (just how Naruto started out, might I add) although they have grown on me a little since the series's beginning (especially Sarada and, as of more recently, Inojin). However, I feel like the characters are a little more real than in its parent series, especially aspects of the character that everyone on MAL loves to hate on...Boruto.\n
Just hear me out on this, alright?\n
Boruto is growing up in a peaceful village and has a privileged life compared to the time when his parents were growing up. Therefore, he's going to be a little bored, not driven to do anything, and bratty, like a normal kid his age would be. I mean, think of all the 10 year olds you know. Are they super driven to do anything unless their parents tell them to? Do they despise their parents a little bit? Can they be bratty sometimes? Do they, if ignored by their parents, try to draw attention to themselves in any naive way they can, even if it brings them negative consequences? That's essentially what Boruto is as of now, as no one and nothing has prompted him to change. I love that part of Boruto's character because it actually feels real (although annoying at some parts). Of course, the character people had to mess this little real streak going by making him super supportive of his classmates all the time, (he's the protagonist and problem-solver of each episode 75% of the time, making the rest of the class look like they can't even tie their own shoelace without Boruto's words of wisdom) but I think that will get better as the show progresses, just like Naruto did.\n\n
ENJOYMENT 7/10\n\n
This one will be quick, because really the only thing I have to say is that I don't mind it. This show hasn't been something I've binged, and the only time I really wanted to know what happened next was during the Sarada Uchiha arc (if you're going to watch anything from the 35 episodes that have already aired, watch that arc). However, I haven't regretted any of the time I've spent watching this show just because watching it feels like watching high-quality filler. It's not necessary, but it's still just plain fun.\n\n
OVERALL 7/10\n\n
Boruto is not bad, despite what all the angry fans who want another Naruto are saying. I like to think that this part of the series that we're in is the prequel or prologue of the series: it's interesting at certain parts but not necessary to understand what will happen later on. In other words, if you have time on your hands and you liked Naruto, I would recommend giving this series a try. I think right now everyone is forgetting how Naruto wasn't a glowing gem of a show when it started off--yes, it had potential, but it definitely had some cliché characters and plot stuff, even as it progressed throughout the 17 years it aired. I know I almost dropped Naruto a second time during the Genin training part and was groaning during the repetitive flashbacks during the Zabuza and Haku fight, but I was patient and ended up getting to watch a pretty great anime. I don't think the story in Boruto officially pick up until the Chunin Exams, but I'm going to keep watching weekly because I feel like these characters are worth investing 20 minutes of my week in, and hopefully some of you out there agree with my sentiments. Thanks for reading! :)