**Warning**
This is one of those shows that sets the viewer up for the ending the entire time.  If you drop this before watching the last episode, you'll be wasting your time watching this series.
Story : It doesn't seem like the story was very well thought out at first (horny teenager in high school trying to get as much girls as he can).  The main character, Ito Makoto, is guaranteed to be the worst anime character you'll ever meet.  He's popular among the girls at his school because he seems/they think he's a nice guy (I have no idea what basis they havefor thinking this), but he's pretty much the devil in disguise.  He'll do everything to make the viewer hate him, from his perverted acts to his childish-like tendency to avoid responsibility.  Most of the people that come in contact with him will get screwed up emotionally/psychologically/physically, and the episodes will end with the viewer thinking, &quot;what's that guy going to do to screw up society now&quot; or maybe even &quot;I hope a lightning bolt comes down and strikes him&quot;.\n
Those that hate Makoto and are dropping the series because of him, don't.  The desired effect is to have you hate him, because divine retribution will eventually come.\n\n
Art : Consistant animation and the artwork is exactly like that of the computer game.\n\n
Sound : The bgm's fit very well.  This show uses a different ending song every episode, some good some bad.  The opening song is mediocre at best.\n\n
Characters : Everyone has issues (won't go into it in detail because of the no spoilers rule).  You wouldn't expect real high school students to act the way they do...though you wouldn't expect real high school students to be ensnared in a story this twisted.\n\n
Enjoyment : There are some scenes that are very hard to watch.  Most of them consists of Makoto doing something that's just horribly horribly wrong with the other characters unaware of it.  Also there are scenes where they show the effects of Makoto's actions on the female characters with Makoto, again, not taking any responsibility.\n\n
Overall : To be frank, you will probably hate this show because of Makoto, since he is the biggest tool I've ever seen.  For those who like twisted dramas, this is the show for you.  I personally chose to finish this series because I really liked how they set up the cliffhangers, and I felt it was challenging me to continue (again, yes, Makoto's actions do make the show very very hard to watch).\n\n
Now for the 95% of the people that watched this show that absolutely hates Makoto, you have to watch the last episode because it's incredibly well done (not for screamish people, parental discretion is advised, blah blah).  Depending on the type of person you are, you will either enjoy it (I know I did) or say it's absolutely twisted.