To begin with,School days is best to be watched without having any background information of it being a H-game adaptation that is infamous for many things if you want to enjoy this anime to the fullest. With that said,there was so much hype going around School days when it was broadcasted that one had to give it a watch. I did and then realised why all the buzz. Never have I saw an anime coming out from this genre so well-executed,so emotionally-draining. 
School days seems like your usual teenage romance drama. Not only does the sypnosis suggests that,it even starts like one. But what youdon't know is School days is in fact an absolute train-wreck in disguise,and a very sly one at that. By making you believe that school days is your typical cliche,the producers could then proceed to 'surprise' you with some nasty stuffs which will most likely catch you off guard. Before you begin realising the anime's true colours,you are already in the roller-coaster ride that is about to depart ( 2nd half of series ). Now that is where the anime starts getting uncomfortable and disturbing. No longer can kissing or touching satisfy the overwhelming lust of our main lead anime. He wants to experience things at the next level and he'll go for any girl who's willing to offer that. All hell breaks loose. Watch how he bangs and lie his way to the point of no return,hurting one girl after another during the process. How will it end? I'm not going to spoil the last 2 episode in case you have not watched.   \n\n
The fact that characters in School days do suffer real consequences of their actions is a refreshing sight. If you touch a girl's butt,chances are you'll get slapped and end up in the police station. No,she isn't going to like it or yadda yadda. Actions in school days don't go unpunished. This is what makes this anime so distinct from its peers and deserving of all the hype because very few anime actually relates to the reality so harshly. \n\n
Contrary to a bunch who branded this anime as sh!t,I have nothing but glowing praises for school days. The execution of the story was to perfection and the flow of events was basically that of an ephemeral incurable disease. To put it simply,it was a slow,grueling process to watch. It never gets better and gradually,it drags you to your last gasp. Animation was decent and with obvious intent to create a sombre atmosphere using dark colours. I didn't like how the character look though. Soundtracks were great and some of the background music really amplify those dramatic moments. Kotonoha's and Makoto's voice were memorable. Character are mostly bastards and bitches meant for all of us to hate(bar a few) so we can have a show. All in all,it was a solid well-done work. And of course every anime has its fair share of flaws,school days isn't any special exception. However,the pros of this anime outweigh the cons by a big big margin that in my opinion,had made the flaws negligible and not matter that much. \n\n
This anime is definitely not for everyone especially to the more sensitive but regardless,I encourage you to give it a try. While I don't believe the exaggerated events in school days happening in our daily life,the anime does teach us some moral values. Episode 12 should serves as a pretty good warning for us viewers to not follow his footsteps. Though not that we really need it but meh,it's something. Had the anime not started so innocently fooling everyone,I'm sure School days would just be passed off as an obscure groundbreaking anime that went on a totally different path from what most harem anime would have taken. But luckily or not,it wasn't the case.    \n\n
I'm pretty sure there are more hate than love in the School days community. While I firmly believe that the anime is receiving too much unwanted injustice from viewers,I do find myself agreeing some key points that was mentioned. The pace of story is slow but it picks up at the latter half. The premise is misleading but it was of a good cause. The characters are detestable but they have to be. At one point,I did loathe it as well since I'd prefer happy stuffs but that doesn't mean the anime is bad. \n\n
Take School days with a grain of salt and you'll be rewarded with a story that offers a great deal of engaging drama and an epic ending that will leave you a lasting impression. No,there won't be a sequel,pretty sure about that. \n\n
Miscellaneous \n
---------------\n
Best soundtrack : Usotsuki by Coo-rie.\n
Best character : Setsuna. \n\n
Adapted by a H-game that is fully animated,you'd thought why sex have become so random and common in high-school. Now you know why.