After finishing this anime, you're going to be asking yourself one thing, and one thing only. "What did I just see?" Whether it's "What kind of s**t did I just see?" or "What amazing twist did I just experience?", chances are, your jaw will be touching the floor. 
Now, a lot of people rate this anime harshly. I feel that this is due to the build up of already harsh reviews. I don't know about you guys, but when I have bad expectations for an anime and start watching it, 9/10 times I won't like the anime. Which is really just a pity. Thankfully, Istarted watching School Days not knowing what to expect, only knowing that there was a huge twist. Really, that's all you need to know. If you start watching schooldays with your mind set in stone that you won't like it, chances are, you won't. Just like almost anything in life, having a bad attitude or already believing you lost, will only decide it for you. This is even more so true in the anime world. If you start watching school days with the expectations that most of the reviews will give you, you're gonna have a bad time.\n\n
Honestly, I loved School Days. It's really a hit or miss. Either you're going to admire it for it's courage to sway from normal slice o' life/romance anime, or despise it for being a train-wreck. Usually, it's the latter of the two. I mainly think the reason for this is solely because of the expectations for it. The synopsis really does attract the wrong audience. What a pity. That's all I can say for School Days. If it had been advertised better and put into a different genre, it could have done good. Thankfully, I like romance, thrillers, horror, slice of life, comedy and almost everything else. Really, School days is a great way to ease the boredom felt by watching countless mainstream romance anime. If you haven't already watched School Days, you're either new to the anime crowd or have been put off by the influx of harsh reviews. Either way, give it a try. Hey, even if you have already watched it and didn't like it, you might want to give it another try with a different mind set. I know I'm going to get hated on for writing a good School Days review, but oh well. I hope some of you try School Days due to this review; and maybe even fall in love with it.\n\n\n\n