To start off, I thought School Days was great. Never knew how to explain it until now. So here goes. 
The deconstruction word is thrown around a lot and seems to rely on the synopsis. People tend to focus on events and characters that are subversive but they fail to talk about how that changes things down the road to uphold a theme that not only criticizes its genre but also makes observations about universal themes. 
To put it simply,  I thought this was an actual deconstruction that shows how lust, envy, and social pressure can ruin and change people. There was character developmentfor most of the characters that was gradual and the whole show followed that tragic villain thing which I liked. Makoto changes from a dull doofus to exploitative then (maybe) remorseful although the last part was left for interpretation. And it should be. A common thing about this show is how it doesn't treat you like a moron with self-indulgent monologues or a clear ambiguity killing answer. The actions are clear, the motivations are not. You have to put some thought into it. And hell even if there was some monologue saying he was remorseful or that he regrets nothing, how could that be believed when the actions and parts of the plot show both upon further analysis? It doesn't so not only would it be bad in terms of storytelling, it would also be contradictory.\n\n
So to start off , was Makoto remorseful for what he did to Kotonoha or only because everyone else had left?  We don't know and the show doesn't tell you. This is the best way to leave things for interpretation. Not treating the viewer like an idiot but also not leaving things purposefully confusing. He acknowledges that he's the worst (this is actually a quote) but he doesn't change. We know the guy isn't socially aware when he actually reads a dating book and seriously believes it or when he really thinks he can get a kiss on the first date. So if the guy is so off when the show was "normal" , then it would be entirely consistent for the guy to not make the right choice when the things go for a tailspin.\n\n
Makoto's decision to cheat on Kotonoha because of lack of physical intimacy is actually very reminiscient of real life. I've seen some guys well into their 20s who'll dump or cheat on a girl because of a lack of physical intimacy. Even guys in a serious relationship or even married. And if you look at statistics, when it comes to men, cheating actually does happen a lot of the time due to lack of physical intimacy. So for a 15 year old guy who just entered the dating world and who's already been estabilished as socially off to cheat on a girl due to lack of physical intimacy is consistent and entirely plausible. It's not shock value or random for that to happen. It happens all the time with people in much more serious relationships.\n\n
Sekai's change from someone secretly jealous of Kotonoha, to someone remorseful of what she did in her part of the blame, and eventually her anger at the whole situation, resulting in her emotional outburst was done well. It was development that spanned the whole anime and was a reaction of circumstance. In the early episodes, I actually found her conversations with the then mentally slow Makoto to be amusing. He knew so little and she seemed so confident and helpful. But of course those personality traits were on the surface, easily malleable by the circumstance. She is a hypocrite and she knows it. Her proposal to "practice" was exploitative and traitorous to Kotonoha, something Makoto shows time and time again after episode 4. So in a way, despite being at odds throughout the anime, Sekai and Makoto shared strikingly similar traits, albeit in different parts of the anime. So you could see it as a form of foreshadowing. It shows we can become who is hurting us and who we hate. It is subtle and requires some thinking on the viewers' behalf.\n\n
Eventually, Setsuna comes in to the picture. She acts as a sort of mediator of the situation where emotions run high. She's Sekai's friend, putting Kotonoha at a disadvantage, and compels Makoto to make the first right step in breaking up with Kotonoha. Eventually, she leaves for France, where things get much worse. Ultimately, Setsuna serves as a fake neutrality. A faux mediator who makes things worse for Kotonoha while also revealing her own bias as she also had a crush on Makoto. She didn't have something out against Kotonoha unlike Otome, she just wanted to help her friend before she left and was willing to put Sekai's feelings over her's. It wasn't malicious but nonetheless, it made things much worse for Kotonoha, especially when Setsuna left and the mediation was no longer there. \n\n
This is consistent because Kotonoha was never shown as someone to have friends or be popular. In fact, her reason for liking Makoto was because he was the first to pay any positive attention to her while it's shown that she spends most of her day at home with her younger sister and she is constantly bullied and taken advantage of by Otome. She is a reactive character but one where her emotional reactions to the changing circumstances are focused on. \n\n
Unlike anime like Clannad where shy reclusive characters are protected and treated like queens by the supporting cast, School Days goes a different way. It essentially shows how shy people who draw a lot of envy are often exploited and trampled over. That many of the times, there is no saving grace and the result can be destructive. Instead of a common trite arc where a shy girl is "saved" by the saviour main character, School Days elects to examine the decay of a shy and horribly treated character left to her own devices and the consequences that are soon to follow. The emotional negligence she experiences is essentially the straw that breaks the camel's back. There are no resets or magic fixes here.\n\n
And so various characters use this emotional turmoil for their own purposes, for malicious reasons like Otome and well intentioned reasons like Setsuna. There is variety here in intentions, keeping the anime from being black and white. I appreciated the simplicity of Setsuna's reason for liking Makoto as well. She likes him because he stuck up for her when she was bullied. Nothing grand or over-the-top, just a simple but legitimate reason that goes straight into the point. It also adds to Makoto's character as even though he is a serial cheater, he's also someone who protects others from bullies. This lets us know that he's not evil per say but there's just something wrong with him somewhere. \n\n
Otome starts off as a bully ringleader who offloads the work onto Kotonoha. After everyone starts liking Makoto, she feels it's socially acceptable for her to go after him. However after it's revealed that Makoto made Sekai pregnant and refused to take responsibility, she realized there's no point in pursuing him. Otome spends the whole anime bullying Kotonoha because she's jealous of the local playboy but once that hedonistic lifestyle shows its negative side, she grows up. At first it's not apparent to her. For instance, Otome is deceived when Makoto lies to her about accepting her to the dance. Even after this, Otome doesn't learn from it and continues to pursue Makoto. It's only when the straw breaks the camel's back with the pregnancy does she grow up. Even going up to Makoto in his house and telling him he's not worth it. It's a complete character arc indundated in subtlety. What was a flaw was the camera placed where Makoto and Otome had sex. While the lack of foreshadowing worked in putting the viewer in the same viewpoint as the characters, thus increasing immersion, the perpetrators were unfortunately completely unexplored or fleshed out so came off as plot devices. The lack of motive and focus for that event was its undoing. Still, most of the character beats of Otome were strong and subtle. I especially loved that her bitchy behaviour was portrayed seriously instead of something cute and endearing and the anime subtly showed that it knew that behaviour was a negative thing. It made me take her character arc seriously and it was a nice change of pace from anime that portrays bitchy tsun behaviour as cute or funny or justified.\n\n
The girls who follow her also start having sex with Makoto because he's become a hot product so to speak. This plays into the social pressure part. But once it's revealed what Makoto did, they drop him like a hot potato, signifying the futility and short-lasting pleasures of a life of hedonism. It works very well with the anime's themes and message even if the characters were underdeveloped by themselves. So you could see that as a partial flaw.\n\n
Daisuke was an interesting character. Usually the best friend of the harem protagonist is this comic relief character who has zero self respect or motivations. Just follows the MC around like a lapdog. But in this case, he had his own motivations. He didn't want to let Makoto be one with all the sexual power and so made an act of sexual frustration. It's a horrible thing but it's one that fleshes him out. Most rapist characters rape because they feel entitled or simply because the author wants to victimize a girl for sympathy. However, Daisuke does it because he's frustrated due to Makoto's success with women. It shows another way of how the hedonistic playboy mentality has unintended consequences. There will always be others who feel robbed. \n\n
It has a real world comparison as you see on the internet with so many sexually frustrated males venting their anger against "chads". How women are so attracted to douchebags and how no one pays any attention to them and so these "incels" do horrible acts. In the same way, Makoto symbolizes the douchebag "chads" and Daisuke symbolizes the sexually frustrated males who complain about them. This is taken up to 11 to point at the seriousness of that situation we see in the world. It's done with subtelty. At no point do they say it, the viewer has to think about it a little. Ultimately though, I wish we could have seen more of Daisuke. He was too much of a background character for too long. His appeal was entirely as a symbolic force, maybe too much so. So that was a partial flaw.\n\n
I also liked how the anime showed a different perspective on the all important school festival. In most anime, the school festival is the most important thing ever and eventually everyone bands together and forgets their differences. However, in School Days, it shows that in the school festival, there are winners (Makoto and Sekai) and losers (Daisuke and Kotonoha). There are also people who are decieved like Otome when Makoto lies to her about accepting her to the dance. With this school festival, it shows multiple perspectives from the characters, it's not a hive mind where everyone has the same goal like in most anime.\n\n
I liked the foreshadowing of the knife. Several episodes before the infamous ending, the camera points to the knife. It's subtle foreshadowing where in most media, it's blatant. \n\n
Was the ending over-the-top? Yes, and it could definitely be seen as a flaw. However, it was foreshadowed at least partially. Primarily though, I was glad it wasn't some BS God reset or time reset that erases all consequences. That happens in anime and I really dislike it. I would especially dislike it if it was in a show where the theme is about bad choices and their effects. But the consequences stuck which I was appreciative of.\n\n
 Ultimately, the ending was a flaw but could have been much worse if went with some form of a reset. I also liked how the craziness of the ending happened once and at the end. Every other moment of extreme plot relevance was done in a subdued manner as to build up to this explosive ending. The anime didn't do anything to lose the impact of the ending. However, the flashbacks and the music was definitely much and Kotonoha's action at the end was way too out there. Probably the biggest flaw despite still being only a partial one.\n\n
Furthermore, I liked how simple the dialogue was and how there was no inner monologues. I liked how Makoto didn't have some inner monologue where he gloats about his power or expresses serious remorse as that would remove the ambiguity and/or his nuanced character. No monologue about society where metaphors are used that makes the whole thing feel preachy and unambiguous. And as for the dialogue, I liked how straight to the point it was regarding the character's feelings. They said what was on their mind even if what was on their mind was an emotional mess. It allowed for a nice comparison between that and their actions. No nonsense riddle-type dialogue with no substance. In Schools Days, the substance is the simplicity. No need for a cover.\n\n
All the characters were consistent throughout while also developing or fleshing out. No 180 switches or development. Their bad choices were in line with who they were.\n\n
As for animation and art, it was dull but I feel served its purpose. It's meant to look like your typical harem and I liked how there was nothing out there to distract the viewer and put a cover to make it look fancier than it is. It's a simplistic animation and art that tells a simplistic story. Nothing 2deep4u or whatever. It's the execution that counts. So many anime sneak in an infodump to make the viewer feel smart and good about how they get it. However, in School Days, the concepts are easy to get with a little attention so there are no infodumps or monologues. It's a focus on the little things that can build up to something unstoppable. And for the most part, it's treated with the utmost care.\n\n
So yeah, a great show and is and likely will stay my favorite harem. The pacing was a bit too slow at parts (kinda), the characters maybe relied too much on what they represented rather than their personality (kinda), the ending was too much despite my praise on other aspects of it , and that one Otome character build up was problematic. However, it stays a great show due to all of its other solid strengths.\n\n