all i can say is WOW. This anime started off with your standard shy high school guy who has a crush on a girl. They ride the same train and he sneaks glances at her everyday. He takes a picture of her one day and tries out the phone charm. Its where you keep a picture of the person you like on your phone and if nobody sees it you will fall in love or something like that. Anyways this girl named Saionji sits next to him and class and decides she will help him get the girl he wants. That's the main story lineof this anime.\n\n
Story- This anime definitely has one of the most interesting story lines. After watching just the first episode you feel like you have to watch more of it. The ending by far is one of the most unexpected and just intense out of any anime I've ever seen and I've seen a bunch of animes with intense endings such as elfen lied and clannad.\n\n
Art- I'm not 100% sure but i believe this anime isn't all that new so the art isn't going to be wonderful on it but the characters and story line definitely make up for it.\n\n
Sound- I really love the music in this anime. The opening theme really fits in well with the rest of the anime and the right tone of music is played at the right time and really sets the mood of things.\n\n
Character- The characters in here are just amazing. Most animes have your kind of stereotypical archetypes but in this anime the characters are dynamic and changing which doesn't seem to happen in most animes like it should be. All in all you get attached to them and get a real connection to them which is hard to accomplish in a short anime like this but can be pulled off.\n\n
Enjoyment- This anime was really enjoying for me. Every episode leaves you wanting more so you feel like you have to keep watching it.\n\n
Overall- Overall this anime was just amazing. It starts off with this guy which i felt like was alot like me, stayed to himself, had a few friends and wasnt good with girls. But he changes alot and that was shocking to me but it made me really like this anime. If you like romances/ physcological animes then this is definitely something you should consider watching.